<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mhl_1jc_dt">
 <title>Configuration Guidelines for RPC Pipelines</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>RPC pipelines<indexterm>configuration guidelines</indexterm></indexterm>To create a
   valid set of RPC pipelines, some configuration options must be aligned. Use the following
   guidelines to configure RPC pipelines:</p>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>origin pipeline</dt>
     <dd>In the origin pipeline, configure the following elements:<ol id="ol_wkt_rrc_dt">
       <li>In the pipeline properties, set the Delivery Guarantee to the option you want to
        use.</li>
       <li>In the pipeline, use the RPC destination.</li>
       <li>When you configure the RPC destination, enter the RPC ID and RPC connection information.
                  <p>To use multiple destination pipelines, enter the RPC connection information for
                  each RPC origin that you want to use. </p></li>
              <li>To use SSL to transfer data between the pipelines, enable SSL and configure
                related properties.</li>
      </ol></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>destination pipeline</dt>
     <dd>For each destination pipeline, configure the following elements:<ol id="ol_e41_xrc_dt">
              <li>In the pipeline properties, set the Delivery Guarantee to the same option as the
                origin pipeline. Using a different option causes the <ph
                  conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
                to default to <uicontrol>At Least Once</uicontrol>.</li>
              <li>In the pipeline, use the RPC origin.</li>
              <li>When you configure the RPC origin, define the properties as follows:<ul
                  id="ul_ihl_zvw_dt">
                  <li>Use the same RPC ID used in the RPC destination.</li>
                  <li>For the RPC Listening Port, enter the appropriate port number. <p>It should be
                      a port number specified in one of the RPC connections in the RPC
                      destination.</p></li>
                  <li>To use SSL to transfer data between the pipelines, enable SSL and configure
                    related properties.</li>
                </ul></li>
            </ol></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
