<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mhl_1jc_dt">
 <title>Configuration Guidelines for SDC RPC Pipelines</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>RPC pipelines<indexterm>configuration guidelines</indexterm></indexterm>To create a
      valid set of SDC RPC pipelines, some configuration options must be aligned. Use the following
      guidelines to configure SDC RPC pipelines:</p>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>origin pipeline</dt>
     <dd>In the origin pipeline, configure the following elements:<ol id="ol_wkt_rrc_dt">
       <li>In the pipeline properties, set the Delivery Guarantee to the option you want to
        use.</li>
       <li>In the pipeline, use the SDC RPC destination.</li>
       <li>When you configure the SDC RPC destination, enter the RPC ID and RPC connection
                information. <p>To use multiple destination pipelines, enter the RPC connection
                  information for each SDC RPC origin that you want to use. </p></li>
              <li>To use encryption to transfer data between the pipelines, enable TLS and configure
                related properties.</li>
      </ol></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>destination pipeline</dt>
     <dd>For each destination pipeline, configure the following elements:<ol id="ol_e41_xrc_dt">
              <li>In the pipeline properties, set the Delivery Guarantee to the same option as the
                origin pipeline. Using a different option causes the <ph
                  conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
                to default to At Most Once behavior.</li>
              <li>In the pipeline, use the SDC RPC origin.</li>
              <li>When you configure the SDC RPC origin, define the properties as follows:<ul
                  id="ul_ihl_zvw_dt">
                  <li>Use the same RPC ID used in the SDC RPC destination.</li>
                  <li>For the RPC Listening Port, enter the appropriate port number. <p>It should be
                      a port number specified in one of the RPC connections in the SDC RPC
                      destination.</p></li>
                  <li>To use encryption to transfer data between the pipelines, enable TLS and
                    configure related properties.</li>
                </ul></li>
            </ol></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
