<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hpn_xfk_p5">
 <title>Data Drift Functions</title>
 <shortdesc>Use data drift functions to create alerts when data drift occurs. You can use these
        functions in data drift rules.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/FunctionArgument"/>
  <p><indexterm>functions<indexterm>data drift functions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>data
                drift functions<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>The expression language
            provides the following data drift functions: <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>drift:names(&lt;field path>, &lt;ignoreWhenMissing: true | false>)</dt>
                    <dd>Triggers an alert when key values change in a map or list-map field. When
                        key values are field names, triggers an alert when field names change. Use
                        with list-map or map fields. </dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/DRIFT-ignoreWMissing"/>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>For example, to trigger an alert when any field name in the record changes
                        and ignore empty records, you can use the root field in the expression as
                        follows:<codeblock>${drift:names('/', true)}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>drift:order(&lt;field path>, &lt;ignoreWhenMissing: true | false>)</dt>
                    <dd>Triggers an alert when the field order changes for fields within a list-map
                        field. Use only with list-map fields. </dd>
                    <dd>Note that this function triggers alerts when field names change as
                        well.</dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/DRIFT-ignoreWMissing"/>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>To alert on field order or name changes within a delimited record and ignore
                        empty records, use the root field as
                        follows:<codeblock>${drift:order('/', true)}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>drift:size(&lt;field path>, &lt;ignoreWhenMissing: true | false>)</dt>
                    <dd>Triggers an alert when the number of fields changes within a list, list-map,
                        or map field. Use with list, list-map, or map fields.</dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/DRIFT-ignoreWMissing"/>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>To alert when the number of columns change within the Depts map field and
                        when a record is missing the Depts field, use the following
                        expression:<codeblock>${drift:size('/Depts', false)}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>drift:type(&lt;field path>, &lt;ignoreWhenMissing: true | false>)</dt>
                    <dd>Triggers an alert when the data type of the specified field changes.
                        Evaluates only the specified field.</dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/DRIFT-ignoreWMissing"/>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>For example, to receive alerts when the data type of the ID field changes
                        and when the ID field does not exist in the record, use the following
                        expression:<codeblock>${drift:type('/ID', false)}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
