<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ndj_43v_1r">
 <title>Error Record Functions</title>
 <shortdesc>Error record functions provide information about error records. Use error functions to
  process error records.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>functions<indexterm>error record functions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>error
     records<indexterm>functions</indexterm></indexterm>For example, you might use error functions
   in a Stream Selector to pass data to different error handling pipelines based on the type of
   error that occurred. </p>
  <p>The expression language provides the following error functions:</p>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:errorCode()</dt>
     <dd>Returns the error code for the error record.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:errorCollectorId()</dt>
     <dd>Returns the ID of the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> that sent
      the record to error. </dd>
     <dd>By default, the Data Collector ID uses the format &lt;hostname>:&lt;port>. You can verify
      the <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> ID
      in the <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      Configuration page.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:errorMessage()</dt>
     <dd>Returns the error message for the error record.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:errorPipeline()</dt>
     <dd>The name of pipeline that sent the record to error.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:errorStage()</dt>
     <dd>Returns the instance name of the stage that sent the record to error. </dd>
     <dd>You can verify the instance name on the General tab of the stage. </dd>
     <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:errorStageLabel()</dt>
     <dd>Returns the user-defined label for the stage that sent the record to error.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:errorTime()</dt>
     <dd>The time the record was sent to error.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: Long.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
