<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gfs_w55_3cb">
    <title>Field Functions</title>
    <shortdesc>You can use field functions in field path expressions that determine the set of
        fields that a processor uses. Each function is evaluated against a set of matching fields
        individually.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>For more information about field path expressions, see <xref
                href="../Pipeline_Configuration/FieldPathExp-Overview.dita#concept_ir4_rxt_3cb"/>. For a list of stages where
            you can use field functions, see <xref
                href="../Pipeline_Configuration/FieldPathExp-SupportedStages.dita#concept_bs3_dm5_3cb"/>.</p>
        <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>f:attribute(&lt;attribute name>)</dt>
                    <dd>Returns the value of the specified field attribute. </dd>
                    <dd>Uses the following argument:<ul id="ul_w4q_nkv_3cb">
                            <li>attribute name - A string value that specifies a field attribute
                                name.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>Return type: String. </dd>
                    <dd>The following field path expression returns only the fields where the region
                        attribute is set to
                        "west":<codeblock>/*[${f:attribute('region') == 'west'}]</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>f:type()</dt>
                    <dd>Returns the data type of a field. Use to the return fields with a specified
                        field type or where the field type is as defined in the expression. </dd>
                    <dd>
                        <note type="important">Use all caps when specifying a data type in an
                            expression and enclose the string in quotation marks. For a list of
                            valid datatypes, see <xref
                                href="../Pipeline_Design/DataTypes.dita#concept_hjl_vyd_kcb"
                            />.</note>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, the following field path expression returns all boolean
                        fields:<codeblock>/*[${f:type() == 'BOOLEAN'}]</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>f:value()</dt>
                    <dd>Returns the value of the field. Use to return the fields with a specified
                        value or where the value is as defined in the expression.</dd>
                    <dd>Return type: Dependent on the field type.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, the following field path expression returns only the fields
                        where the value is greater than 0.
                        <codeblock>/*[${f:value() > 0}]</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
