<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kxj_nyl_5x">
 <title>File Functions</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>functions<indexterm>file functions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>file
                    functions<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>Use file functions to
            return information about a filename or path. For example, you might use a file function
            to remove a file extension from a filepath or to return part of the path.</p>
        <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/FunctionArgument"/>
        <p>The expression language provides the following file functions:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>file:fileExtension(&lt;filepath>)</dt>
                    <dd>Returns the file extension from a file path. Uses the following argument:<ul
                            id="ul_slr_yqr_5x">
                            <li>filepath - An absolute path to a file.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, the following expression returns <codeph>.txt</codeph>:
                        <codeblock>${file:fileExtension('/logs/weblog.txt'}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>file:fileName(&lt;filepath>)</dt>
                    <dd>Returns the file name from a file path. Uses the following argument:<ul
                            id="ul_ofq_dsr_5x">
                            <li>filepath - An absolute path to a file.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, the following expression returns the filename,
                            <codeph>weblog.txt</codeph>:<codeblock>${file:fileName('/logs/weblog.txt')}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>file:parentPath(&lt;filepath>)</dt>
                    <dd>When used with a path to a file, returns the path to the file without the
                        final separator, such as <codeph>/files</codeph> for
                            <codeph>/files/file.log</codeph>. </dd>
                    <dd>When used with a path to a directory, returns the path to the directory
                        without the final separator, such as <codeph>/serverA/logs</codeph> for
                            <codeph>/serverA/logs/2016</codeph>.</dd>
                    <dd>Uses the following argument:<ul id="ul_cxd_hrf_gy">
                            <li>filepath - An absolute path to a file.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, the following expression that includes a path to a file returns
                            <codeph>/serverB/logs</codeph>:<codeblock>${file:parentPath('/serverB/logs/weblog.txt')}</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>Similarly, the following expression that includes a path to a directory
                        returns the parent directory,
                        <codeph>/serverB/logs</codeph>:<codeblock>${file:parentPath('/serverB/logs/weblogs')}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>file:pathElement(&lt;filepath>, &lt;integer>)</dt>
                    <dd>Returns the part of a path based on the specified integer. Uses the
                        following arguments: <ul id="ul_afc_cwm_5x">
                            <li>filepath - An absolute path to a file.</li>
                            <li>integer - The section of a path to return. Can return parts starting
                                from the left or right side of the path:<ul id="ul_rz3_gwm_5x">
                                    <li>To return a section of a path, counting from the left side
                                        of the path, use 0 and positive integers and start with 0. </li>
                                    <li>To return a section of a path, counting from the right side
                                        of the path, use negative integers and start with -1.</li>
                                </ul></li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, to return the logs portion of the path, you can use either of
                        the following
                        expressions:<codeblock>${file:pathElement('/logs/weblog.txt',0}
${file:pathElement('/logs/weblog.txt',-2}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>file:removeExtension(&lt;filepath>)</dt>
                    <dd>Returns the file path without the file extension. Uses the following
                            argument:<ul id="ul_mnq_gsr_5x">
                            <li>filepath - An absolute path to a file.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, the following expression returns
                        <codeph>/logs/weblog</codeph>:<codeblock>${file:removeExtension('/logs/weblog.txt'}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
