<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_s2c_q14_fs">
 <title>Delimited Data Record Functions</title>
 <shortdesc>When reading delimited data, the <ph
   conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> generates
  records of the List data format with a map of the header and value. Use delimited data record
  functions to process delimited data, such as returning the value associated with a header or
  checking for duplicate headers. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>functions<indexterm>delimited data</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>delimited data
     functions<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>For more information about the delimited
   data record format, see <xref
    href="../Pipeline_Design/DelimitedDataRecordStructure.dita#concept_zcg_bm4_fs"/>.</p>
  <p>The expression language provides the following delimited data record functions:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:dExists('&lt;header name>')</dt>
     <dd>Determines if the specified header name exists in the record.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: Boolean.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:dHasDupHeader()</dt>
     <dd>Determines if the record has duplicate header names. </dd>
     <dd>Return type: Boolean.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:dIndex('&lt;header name>')</dt>
     <dd>Returns the index associated with the specified header name. Use to find the position of a
      header in the record. </dd>
     <dd>Return type: Integer, starting with 0 for the first position.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:dIsDupHeader('&lt;header name>')</dt>
     <dd>Determines if the specified header name is used more than once in a record. </dd>
     <dd>Return type: Boolean.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:dToMap()</dt>
     <dd>Converts the record to a JSON map using headers as keys.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: Record in map format.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:dValue('&lt;header name>')</dt>
     <dd>Returns the value associated with the specified header name. </dd>
     <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:dValueAt(&lt;header index>)</dt>
     <dd>Returns the value at the specified header index position.</dd>
     <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
