<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ahp_f4v_1r">
 <title>String Functions </title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>functions<indexterm>string functions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>string
          functions<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>Use string functions to transform
      string data.</p>
    <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/FunctionArgument"/>
  <p>The expression language provides the following string functions:</p>
  <p>
   <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:concat(&lt;string1>, &lt;string2>)</dt>
          <dd>Concatenates two strings together. </dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_w3w_w2t_2v">
              <li>string1 - The first string to concatenate.</li>
              <li>string2 - The second string to concatenate.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>Use the str:concat function to concatenate strings within an expression. For example,
            to concatenate the FirstName field with the LastName field and then check if that result
            matches a pattern, use the following expression:</dd>
          <dd>${str:matches(str:concat(record:value("/FirstName") , record:value("/LastName")) ,
            "[A-Z][a-z]+[A-Z][a-z]+")}</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:contains(&lt;string>, &lt;subset>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns true or false based on whether the string contains the configured subset of
            characters.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_fwp_p4k_br">
              <li>string - The string to evaluate.</li>
              <li>subset - The subset of characters to look for. </li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:contains("Jane", "boo")} returns: false.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:endsWith(&lt;string>, &lt;subset>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns true or false based on whether the string ends with the configured subset of
            characters.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_tf5_y4k_br">
              <li>string - The string to evaluate.</li>
              <li>subset - The subset of characters to look for.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:endsWith("32403-1001", "1001")} returns: true.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:escapeXML10(&lt;string>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns a string that you can embed in an XML 1.0 or 1.1 document. </dd>
          <dd>Uses the following argument: <ul id="ul_e4m_kbb_qz">
              <li>string - The string to escape.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
          <dd>For example, you can use the following expression to generate XML-safe string data
            based on the XML in the XMLdata field: <codeph>
              ${str:escapeXML10(record:value('/XMLdata'))}</codeph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:escapeXML11(&lt;string>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns a string that you can embed in an XML 1.1 document.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following argument: <ul id="ul_ewf_5bb_qz">
              <li>string - The string to escape.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>Return type: String.</dd>
          <dd>For example, you can use the following expression to generate XML-safe string data
            based on the XML in the XMLdata field: <codeph>
              ${str:escapeXML11(record:value('/XMLdata'))}</codeph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:indexOf(&lt;string>, &lt;subset>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns the index within a string of the first occurrence of the specified subset of
            characters.</dd>
          <dd>Return type: Integer.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_jlp_y44_x1b">
              <li>string - The string to return the index of.</li>
              <li>subset - The subset of characters to look for.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:indexOf("tomorrow", "row")} returns: 5.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:isNullOrEmpty(&lt;string>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns true or false based on whether a string is null or is the empty string.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following argument: <ul id="ul_y42_sgn_gbb">
              <li>string - The string to evaluate.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:isNullOrEmpty(record:value("/work_phone"))} returns true if the
            work_phone field is the empty string.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:length(&lt;string>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns the length of a string.</dd>
          <dd>Return type: Integer.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following argument:<ul id="ul_mdj_5hm_gv">
              <li>string - The string to return the length for.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:length("tomorrow")} returns: 8.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:matches(&lt;string>, &lt;regEx>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns true or false based on whether a string matches a Java regex pattern.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_yjb_wjq_fv">
              <li>string - The string to evaluate.</li>
              <li>regEx - Regular expression that describes the pattern of the string.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:matches(record:value("/HostName"), ".*\.com$")} checks if the
            string in the HostName field ends with the characters ".com".</dd>
        </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
          <dt>str:regExCapture(&lt;string>, &lt;regEx>, &lt;group>)</dt>
          <dd>Parses a complex string into groups based on a Java regex pattern and returns the
            specified group.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_fy1_qbx_1r">
              <li>string - The string that contains a pattern of characters.</li>
              <li>regEx - Regular expression that describes the pattern of the string, separating it
                into groups. Use the backslash as an escape character for special characters in the
                expression. For example, to represent a digit in the expression with the characters
                  <codeph>\d</codeph>, use <codeph>\\d</codeph>.</li>
              <li>group - The number of the group to return, where 1 represents the first group, 2
                represents the second group, etc. 0 returns the entire string.</li>
            </ul><p>For example, to extract the month and day from the Date field that uses the
              format 'mm-dd-yyyy', use the following function:
              ${str:regExCapture(record:value('/Date'), '(\\w{2}\\-\\w{2})-\\w*', 1)}</p><p>
              (\\w{2}\\-\\w{2})-\\w*', 1)</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:replace(&lt;string>, &lt;oldChar>, &lt;newChar>)</dt>
          <dd>Replaces all instances of a specified character in a string with a new character. </dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_ryc_pnk_br">
              <li>string - The string for character replacement. </li>
              <li>oldChar - Character to replace.</li>
              <li>newChar - Character to use for replacement.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:replace("lecucereche", "e", "a")} returns: lacucaracha.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:replaceAll(&lt;string>, &lt;regEx>, &lt;newString>)</dt>
          <dd>Replaces a set of characters in a string with a new set of characters.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_eqg_tnk_br">
              <li>string - The string for the replacement of a group of characters.</li>
              <li>regEx - A regular expression that describes the string to replace.</li>
              <li>newString - The set of characters to use for replacement.</li>
            </ul><p>For example, ${str:replaceAll("shoes(*)","footwear")} replaces all strings that
              start with "shoes" with "footwear".</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:splitKV(&lt;string>, &lt;pairSeparator>, &lt;keyValueSeparator>)</dt>
          <dd>Splits key-value pairs in a string into a map of string values.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_a5f_g53_jbb">
              <li>string - The string containing the key-value pairs. </li>
              <li>pairSeparator - The set of characters that separate the key-value pairs.</li>
              <li>keyValueSeparator - The set of characters that separate each key and value.</li>
            </ul><p>For example, let's say that a record contains a "dimensions" string field that
              records the height, width, and length as follows: "height=32 width=24 length=36". The
              function ${str:splitKV(record:value("/dimensions"), " ", "=")} returns the following
              map of string
              values:<codeblock>"dimensions": {
      "height": "32",
      "width": "24",
      "length": "36"
    }</codeblock></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:startsWith(&lt;string>, &lt;subset>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns true or false based on whether the string starts with the configured subset of
            characters.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_bgv_54k_br">
              <li>string - The string to evaluate.</li>
              <li>subset - The subset of characters to look for.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:startsWith("Data Collector", "Data")} returns: true.</dd>
        </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>str:substring(&lt;string>, &lt;beginIndex>, &lt;endIndex>)</dt>
     <dd>Returns a subset of the string value that starts with the beginIndex character and ends one
            character before the endIndex. </dd>
     <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_pcx_4yw_1r">
       <li>string - The string that contains the return substring that you want.</li>
       <li>beginIndex - An integer that represents the beginning position of the returned substring.
                Start the count from the left with 0. </li>
       <li>endIndex - An integer that represents one position past the end of the substring. </li>
      </ul></dd>
     <dd>For example, ${str:substring("Chewing Gum", 0, 5)} returns: Chew.</dd>
    </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:toLower(&lt;string>)</dt>
          <dd>Converts string data to all lowercase letters.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following argument:<ul id="ul_il3_nnk_br">
              <li>string - The string to lower case.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:toLower("FALSE")} returns: false.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:toUpper(&lt;string>)</dt>
          <dd>Converts string data to all capital letters. </dd>
          <dd>Uses the following argument:<ul id="ul_std_jnk_br">
              <li>string - The string to capitalize.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, ${str:toUpper("true")} returns: TRUE.</dd>
        </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>str:trim(&lt;string>)</dt>
     <dd>Trims leading and trailing white space characters from a string, including spaces and
      return characters. </dd>
     <dd>Uses the following argument:<ul id="ul_cpm_fnk_br">
       <li>string - The string to return without additional white space characters.</li>
      </ul></dd>
     <dd>For example, ${str:trim(record:value("/Address"))} trims leading and trailing white space
            characters from the Address field.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>str:truncate(&lt;string>, &lt;length>)</dt>
     <dd>Returns a string truncated to the specified length. Use an integer to specify the length. </dd>
     <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_yqx_c4k_br">
       <li>string - The string to truncate. </li>
       <li>length - An integer that represents the number of characters to keep. </li>
      </ul></dd>
     <dd>For example, when a phone number field includes string numbers such as 415-555-5555,
            ${str:truncate(record:value('/phone'),3)} returns the area code of the phone
            number.</dd>
    </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:unescapeJava(&lt;string>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns an unescaped string from a string with special Java characters. Use to include
            binary or non-printable characters in any location where you can enter an expression. </dd>
          <dd>Uses the following argument:<ul id="ul_vm1_g25_b1b">
              <li>string - The string to process.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:unescapeXML(&lt;string>)</dt>
          <dd>Returns an unescaped string from a string that had XML data escaped.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following argument:<ul id="ul_stl_xcb_qz">
              <li>string - The string that includes escaped XML data.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>For example, say you have escaped XML data  embedded within an XML document in an
            additionalXML field. The following expression unescapes the XML:
              <codeph>${str:unescapeXML(record:value('/additionalXML'))}</codeph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:urlDecode(&lt;URL>, &lt;charset>)</dt>
          <dd>Converts characters from a URL to the specified character set, such as UTF-8. </dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_m2g_hdc_vy">
              <li>URL - The URL or field of URLs to decode.</li>
              <li>charset - The character set to apply to the URL. For information about valid
                encodings, see <xref
                  href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/nio/charset/Charset.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>Return value: String.</dd>
          <dd>For example, to convert a URL to UTF-8, use the following
            expression:<codeblock>${str:urlDecode(record:value('/URL'), 'UTF-8')}</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>str:urlEncode(&lt;infoforURL>, &lt;charset>)</dt>
          <dd>Converts invalid characters to help create a valid URL based on the specified
            character set, such as UTF-8. You might use this function when using record data to add
            additional information, like a fragment, to a URL.</dd>
          <dd>Uses the following arguments:<ul id="ul_s2v_rtv_vy">
              <li>infoforURL - The information to encode for a URL.</li>
              <li>charset - The character set to convert to, such as UTF-8. For information about
                valid encodings, see <xref
                  href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/nio/charset/Charset.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>Return value: String.</dd>
          <dd>For example, to encode a search result for use in a URL, converting spaces to valid
            characters, you might use the following expression:
            <codeblock>${str:urlEncode(record:value('/result'), 'UTF-8')}</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
