<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_phf_cjt_ls">
 <title>Basic Tutorial</title>
 <shortdesc>The basic tutorial creates a pipeline that reads a file from a directory, processes the
  data in two branches, and writes all data to a file system. You'll use data preview to help
  configure the pipeline, and you'll create a data alert and run the pipeline. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>tutorial<indexterm>basic</indexterm></indexterm>Here are high level steps for
   building and running the basic pipeline:<ol id="ol_emy_rhp_ms">
    <li>Configure pipeline properties, primarily error handling.</li>
    <li>Add a Directory origin to represent the data to be processed. </li>
    <li>Preview source data to determine the field-level details needed for the pipeline.</li>
    <li>Use a Stream Selector to route credit card transactions to the primary branch and cash
     transactions to the secondary branch. We'll define a required field to discard records without
     a payment type.</li>
    <li>Configure a Jython Evaluator to perform custom processing that determines the credit card
     type based on the credit card number. </li>
    <li>Add a Field Masker to mask credit card numbers. Use a required field to discard records
     without credit card numbers.</li>
    <li>Connect both branches to a Local FS destination.</li>
    <li>In the secondary branch, use an Expression Evaluator to add fields to the cash records to
     match the credit card records. Use data preview to verify the fields to add. </li>
    <li>Add a data rule to raise an alert if too many credit card payments are missing credit card
     numbers.</li>
    <li>Start the pipeline and monitor the results.</li>
   </ol></p>
  
 </conbody>
</concept>
