<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hg5_j2p_ms">
 <title>Before You Begin</title>
 <shortdesc>Before you start this tutorial, you'll need to do a few things:</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <ol id="ol_xyv_3x4_ms">
    <li><indexterm>tutorial<indexterm>prerequisites</indexterm></indexterm>Download sample data.
      <p>You can download sample data from the StreamSets website. You'll need a login to the
      password-protected section of the site - it just takes a moment to set up an
      account.</p><p>Sample data URL: </p><draft-comment author="Loretta">URL </draft-comment></li>
    <li>Set up origin, destination, and error directories. <p>We will be prefixing output and error
            files, so for convenience you can use the same directory for all three file types. If
            you prefer to use separate directories, set up the following:</p><ul id="ul_qwn_mz4_ms">
            <li>Origin directory - Save the sample data in a directory local to the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>.
              Make sure that the user who started the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
              has permission to read from the directory.</li>
            <li>Destination directory - The pipeline writes output records to file. Consider where
              you want to write the output files and make sure the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
              user has write permission for the directory. </li>
            <li>Error directory - The pipeline also writes error records to file - though you can
              configure it to write to Kafka if you prefer. Make sure the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
              user has write permission for the error directory.</li>
          </ul></li>
    <li>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
     should be installed and running, but not running other pipelines. <p>At this time, a <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> instance
      can run a single pipeline, but you can install multiple instances on the same
       machine.<draft-comment author="Loretta">change this soon? </draft-comment></p></li>
    <li>To create and run the pipeline, you should have a login with the creator and manager roles
     or the admin role. <p>If using the default logins shipped with the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>, you can
      use the admin login: <codeph>admin</codeph> / <codeph>admin</codeph>. </p></li>
   </ol>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
