<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_fsb_1my_ps">
    <title>Run the Extended Pipeline</title>
    <shortdesc>Now that the extended pipeline is complete, let's reset the origin and run the
        pipeline again. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Reset the origin when you want the Data Collector to process all available data
                instead of processing data from the last-saved offset. Not all origins can be reset,
                but you can reset the origin for Directory.</p>
        </context>
        <steps id="steps_qhq_bwj_rs">
            <step>
                <cmd>In the console menu bar, click the <uicontrol>More</uicontrol> icon, and then
                    click <uicontrol>Reset Origin</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>When the confirmation dialog box displays, click
                    <uicontrol>Yes</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To start the pipeline, click the <uicontrol>Start</uicontrol> icon.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <result>The console goes into monitor mode and the data alert triggers again. <draft-comment
                author="Loretta">add monitoring info here or create a new topic for that? Leave
                error record stuff here? Or new topic? </draft-comment>Before long, you'll see some
            error records in the Jython Evaluator and the Field Converter. <p>For each stage, you
                can see the error messages for latest error records. </p><p>To look at all the error
                records, you can review the error record files in the directory that you specified.
                Error records are written in the SDC Record data format so you can create an error
                pipeline to process error records. We'll show you how to create an error pipeline to
                process these error records in a future tutorial.</p><p>That's it for this tutorial.
                Hope you found it helpful. <draft-comment author="Loretta">link to
                    communities/email</draft-comment></p></result>
    </taskbody>
</task>
