<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_br5_rzq_ks">
    <title>Route Data with the Stream Selector</title>
    <shortdesc>To separate records that use credit card for payment, we use the Stream Selector
        processor. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>The Stream Selector uses user-defined conditions to route data. Any data not captured
                by a user-defined condition routes to the default stream. </p>
            <p>In this case, because the data is delimited, we use a delimited data function. The
                    <codeph>record:dValue</codeph> function returns the value of the specified
                field, so to capture records with credit card payments you use the following
                condition: <codeblock>${record:dValue('payment_type') == 'CRD'}</codeblock></p>
        </context>
        <steps id="steps_xhx_3rk_ls">
            <step>
                <cmd>In the stage library, select the <uicontrol>Stream Selector</uicontrol>
                    processor and connect it to the pipeline. </cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>With the Stream Selector selected, in the Properties panel, click the
                        <uicontrol>Conditions</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
                <info>A default condition for the default stream displays. The default stream
                    represents any records not captured by other conditions.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> icon.</cmd>
                <info>A condition text box displays, as well as the corresponding output
                    location.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Enter the following condition to capture records where a credit card is used
                    for payment:</cmd>
                <info>
                    <codeblock>${record:dValue('payment_type') == 'CRD'}</codeblock>
                </info>
                <info>All other records are captured by the default condition and stream.</info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
