<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qyv_1tf_qv">
 <title>Metric Conditions</title>
 <shortdesc>When you configure a metric rule, you configure the condition that defines the threshold
        at which the metric rule triggers an alert. Use the expression language to configure the
        condition. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p>The expression language provides the following functions for creating metric rule
            conditions:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>value()</dt>
                <dd>Returns the value of the current metric selected in the metric rule. Use in
                    conditions for any type of metric rule.<p>For example, the default rule for the
                        Pipeline Batch Bad Records Meter metric includes the following
                        condition:<codeblock>${value() > 100}</codeblock></p><p>The alert is
                        tiggered when the pipeline encounters more than 100 error records.</p></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>time.now()</dt>
                <dd>Returns the current time of the Data Collector machine as a java.util.Date
                    object. Use in conditions for gauge metric rules.<p>For example, the default
                        rule for the Runtime Statistics Gauge metric that checks whether the
                        pipeline is idle includes the following
                        condition:<codeblock>${time:now() - value() > 120000}</codeblock></p><p>The
                        alert is triggered when the current time is greater than the time of the
                        last received record by 120,000 milliseconds.</p></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>jvm:maxMemoryMB()</dt>
                <dd>Returns the Java heap size allocated to <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> in MB. Use in conditions for counter metric rules.<p>For example, the default
                        rule for the Pipeline Memory Consumption Counter metric includes the
                        following
                        condition:<codeblock>${value() > (jvm:maxMemoryMB() * 0.65)}</codeblock></p><p>The
                        alert is triggered when the pipeline uses 65% of the Java heap size
                        allocated to <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        />.</p></dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
