<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lmn_gdc_1w">
    <title>Record Header Attributes for Record-Based Writes</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Hadoop FS destination<indexterm>record header attributes for record-based
                    writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>record header
                    attributes<indexterm>record-based writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Local
                FS destination<indexterm>record header attributes for record-based
                    writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>MapR FS destination<indexterm>record
                    header attributes for record-based
                    writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>record based
                    writes</indexterm></indexterm>Destinations can use information in record header
            attributes to write data. Destinations that write Avro data can use Avro schemas in the
            record header. The Hadoop FS, MapR FS, and Local FS destinations can use record header
            attributes to determine the directory to write to and when to roll a file. </p>
        <p>To use a record header attribute, configure the destination to use the header attribute
            and ensure that the records include the header attribute. </p>
        <p>You can use the following record header attributes in destinations:
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>targetDirectory attribute in the Hadoop FS, Local FS, and MapR FS
                        destinations</dt>
                    <dd>The targetDirectory record header attribute defines the directory where the
                        record is written. If the directory does not exist, the destination creates
                        the directory. The targetDirectory header attribute replaces the Directory
                        Template property in the destination.</dd>
                    <dd>When you use targetDirectory to provide the directory, the time basis
                        configured for the destination is used only for determining whether a record
                        is late. Time basis is not used to determine the output directories to
                        create or to write records to directories.</dd>
                    <dd>To use the targetDirectory header attribute, on the
                            <wintitle>Output</wintitle> tab, select <uicontrol>Directory in
                            Header</uicontrol>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>avroSchema attribute in destinations that write Avro data</dt>
                    <dd>The avroSchema header attribute defines the Avro schema for the record. When
                        you use this header attribute, you cannot define an Avro schema to use in
                        the destination. </dd>
                    <dd>To use the avroSchema header attribute, on the <wintitle>Avro</wintitle>
                        tab, select <uicontrol>Load Schema from Header</uicontrol>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>roll attribute in the Hadoop FS, Local FS, and MapR FS destinations</dt>
                    <dd>The roll attribute, when present in the record header, triggers a roll of
                        the file. </dd>
                    <dd>You can define the name of the roll header attribute. When you use the Hive
                        Metadata processor to generate the roll header attribute, use the default
                        "roll" attribute name. When you use an Expression Evaluator, use the name of
                        the roll attribute that you defined in the processor.</dd>
                    <dd>To use a roll header attribute, on the <wintitle>Output</wintitle> tab,
                        select <uicontrol>Use Roll Attribute</uicontrol> and define the name of the
                        attribute. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
