<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_n5t_zgx_4y">
 <title>Batch Strategy</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>JDBC Multitable Consumer origin<indexterm>batch
                strategy</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>batch strategy<indexterm>JDBC Multitable
                    Consumer origin</indexterm></indexterm><ph id="ph-BatchOverview">Each origin
                thread creates a batch of data from a single table. You can define one of the
                following strategies that the threads use to create each batch:</ph></p>
        <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry id="dlentry-AllRows">
                    <dt>Process All Available Rows from the Table</dt>
                    <dd>Each thread creates multiple batches of data from one table, until all
                        available rows are read from that table. The thread runs one SQL query for
                        all batches created from the table. Then, the thread switches to the next
                        available table, running another SQL query to read all available rows from
                        that table.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, let's say that the batch size for the origin is set to 100. The
                        origin is configured to use two concurrent threads and to read from four
                        tables, each of which contains 1,000 rows. The first thread runs one SQL
                        query to create 10 batches of 100 rows each from table1, while the second
                        thread uses the same strategy to read data from table2. When table1 and
                        table2 are fully read, the threads switch to table3 and table4 and complete
                        the same process. When the first thread finishes reading from table3, the
                        thread switches back to the next available table to read all available data
                        from the last saved offset.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry-SwitchTables">
                    <dt>Switch Tables</dt>
                    <dd>Each thread creates a set of batches from one table based on the Batches
                        from Result Set property, and then switches to the next available table to
                        create the next set of batches. The thread runs an initial SQL query to
                        create the first set of batches from the table. The database caches the
                        remaining rows in a result set in the database for the same thread to access
                        again, and then the thread switches to the next available table. A table is
                        available in the following situations:<ul id="ul_et1_zg4_lz">
                            <li>The table does not have an open result set cache. In this case, the
                                thread runs an initial SQL query to create the first batch, caching
                                the remaining rows in a result set in the database.</li>
                            <li>The table has an open result set cache created by that same thread.
                                In this case, the thread creates the batch from the result set cache
                                in the database rather than running another SQL query. </li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>A table is not available when the table has an open result set cache created
                        by another thread. No other thread can read from that table until the result
                        set is closed. </dd>
                    <dd>When you configure a switch table strategy, define the result set cache size
                        and the number of batches that a thread can create from the result set.
                        After a thread creates the configured number of batches, the database closes
                        the result set and then a different thread can read from the table.</dd>
                    <dd>
                        <note>By default, the origin instructs the database to cache an unlimited
                            number of result sets. A thread can create an unlimited number of
                            batches from that result set.</note>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>For example, let's say that the batch size for the origin is set to 100. The
                        origin is configured to use two concurrent threads and to read from four
                        tables, each of which contains 10,000 rows. You set the result set cache
                        size to 500 and set the number of batches read from the result set to 5. </dd>
                    <dd>Thread1 runs an SQL query on table1, which returns all 10,000 rows. The
                        thread creates a batch when it reads the first 100 rows. The next 400 rows
                        are cached as a result set in the database. Since thread2 is similarly
                        processing table2, thread1 switches to the next available table, table3, and
                        repeats the same process. After creating a batch from table3, thread1
                        switches back to table1 and retrieves the next batch of rows from the result
                        set that it previously cached in the database.</dd>
                    <dd>After thread1 creates five batches using the result set cache for table1,
                        the database closes the result set cache. Thread1 switches to the next
                        available table. A different thread runs an SQL query to read additional
                        rows from table1, beginning from the last saved offset.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
