<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ffz_hhw_kq">
 <title>Delivery Guarantee</title>
 <shortdesc>When you configure a pipeline, you define how you want data to be treated: Do you want
    to prevent the loss of data, or do you want to prevent the duplication of data?</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>delivery guarantee<indexterm>pipeline
          property</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>pipelines<indexterm>delivery
          guarantee</indexterm></indexterm>The Delivery Guarantee pipeline property offers the
      following choices:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>At least once</dt>
          <dd>The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            ensures that the pipeline processes all data. </dd>
          <dd>If a failure causes the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            stop while processing a batch of data, when restarts, it reprocesses the batch.</dd>
          <dd>This option ensures that no data is lost. But if the failure occurs as the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            writes data to destinations, up to one batch data might be duplicated in the
            target.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>At most once</dt>
          <dd>The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            ensures that data is not processed more than once. </dd>
          <dd>If a failure causes the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            stop while processing a batch of data, when it starts up, it begins processing with the
            next batch of data.</dd>
          <dd>This option ensures duplicate data is not written to the target due to reprocessing.
            But if the failure occurs as the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            writes data to destinations, up to one batch of data might not be processed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
