<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kgc_l4y_5r">
 <title>Pipeline Error Record Handling</title>
 <shortdesc>Pipeline error record handling determines how the <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> processes
    error records that stages send to the pipeline for error handling. It also handles records
    deliberately dropped from the pipeline such as records without required fields.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>pipelines<indexterm>error record handling</indexterm></indexterm>The pipeline
      provides the following error record handling options:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Discard</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline discards the record. The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to File</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to a local directory. The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the directory to use and the maximum file size. Error files are named based
            on the File Prefix pipeline property. </dd>
          <dd>Write to file is not supported for cluster pipelines at this time.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to Pipeline via RPC</dt>
          <dd><draft-comment author="Loretta">Check Tucu's changes here. </draft-comment>The
            pipeline writes error records to an RPC pipeline. The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>To write to another pipeline, you need to create an RPC pipeline to process the error
            records. The pipeline must include an RPC origin configured to read error records from
            this pipeline.</dd>
          <dd>Write to Pipeline via RPC is not supported for cluster pipelines at this time. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to Kafka</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to Kafka. The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the configuration properties for the Kafka cluster to use. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  <p>When a <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
   encounters an unexpected error, it stops the pipeline and logs the error.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
