<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_atr_j4y_5r">
 <title>Stage Error Record Handling</title>
 <shortdesc>Most stages include error record handling options. When an error occurs when processing
    a record, the <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> processes
    records based on the On Record Error property for the stage.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>stages<indexterm>error record handling</indexterm></indexterm>Stages include the
      following error handling options:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Discard</dt>
          <dd>The stage silently discards the record. The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> does
            not log information about the error or note the specific record that encountered an
            error. The discarded record is not included in Monitor mode error record counts or
            metrics. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Send to Error </dt>
          <dd>The stage sends the record to the pipeline for error handling. The pipeline processes
            the record based on the pipeline error handling configuration.</dd>
          <dd>When you monitor the pipeline, you can view the most recent error records and the
            issues they encountered on the Error Records tab for the stage. This information becomes
            unavailable after you stop the pipeline. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Stop Pipeline</dt>
          <dd>The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            stops the pipeline and logs information about the error. The error that stopped the
            pipeline displays as an alert in Monitor mode and as an error in the pipeline history.
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
