<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mtn_k4j_rz">
 <title>Notifications</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>notifications<indexterm>pipeline state
                changes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>pipeline state
                    notifications<indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>You can configure a
            pipeline to send an email or webhook when the pipeline changes to specified states.</p>
        <p>For example, you might send an email when someone manually stops the pipeline, causing it
            to transition to a Stopped state. Or you might send a Slack or text message when the
            pipeline changes to a Start_Error or Run_Error state. </p>
        <p>You can send notifications when the pipeline converts to the following states:<ul
                id="ul_h1x_xtj_rz">
                <li>Running</li>
                <li>Start_Error</li>
                <li>Run_Error</li>
                <li>Stopped</li>
                <li>Finished</li>
                <li>Disconnected</li>
                <li>Connecting</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>You can specify multiple states to trigger notifications, but you cannot configure the
            pipeline to send different notifications based on different pipeline state changes at
            this time. For example, if you configure notifications for the Running and Finished
            states, the pipeline sends notifications when changing to both states. </p>
        <p>However, when configuring a webhook, you can use webhook parameters in the payload to
            indicate the state change that triggered the notification. For more information about
            webhooks, see <xref href="Webhooks.dita#concept_mp1_t3l_rz"/>.</p>
        <p>To send email notification, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            must be configured to send email. To enable sending email, configure the email alert <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            properties. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/SDCDPM_ConfigSDC"
            /></p>
        <p>For more information about pipeline states, see <xref
                href="../Pipeline_Maintenance/PipelineStates-Understanding.dita#concept_s4p_ns5_nz"
            />.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
