<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_erj_qg4_qv">
 <title>Rate Limit</title>
 <shortdesc>You can limit the rate at which a pipeline processes records by defining the maximum
        number of records that the pipeline can read in a second.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>pipeline properties<indexterm>rate limit</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>rate
                    limit<indexterm>pipeline</indexterm></indexterm>By default, a pipeline has no
            rate limit. You might want to limit the rate for the following reasons:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>The pipeline reads records faster than it can write them to the destination
                    system</dt>
                <dd>Because a pipeline processes one batch at a time, pipeline performance slows
                    when a pipeline reads records faster than it can process them or write them to
                    the destination system. The pipeline must wait until a batch is committed to the
                    destination system before reading the next batch, causing a delay before the
                    next batch is read and preventing the pipeline from reading at a steady rate.
                    Reading data at a steady rate provides better performance than reading
                    sporadically. </dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>You can limit the rate at which the pipeline reads records to decrease the
                        delay between reads from the origin system.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>The origin system requires that the data be read at a slower rate</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>If the origin system is being used for other purposes, it might not be able
                        to handle the rate at which the pipeline reads records. You can limit the
                        rate to meet the origin system requirements.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>Use the <uicontrol>Rate Limit</uicontrol> pipeline property to define the maximum number
            of records that the pipeline can read in a second.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
