<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gs2_s5y_bt">
 <title>Pipeline Configuration</title>
 <shortdesc>Configure a pipeline on the pipeline canvas by adding and linking the stages that you
  want to use. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>When you configure a pipeline, you add a single <term>origin</term> stage to represent source
   data, <term>processor</term> stages to perform processing and routing, and one or more
    <term>destination</term> stages to represent target data. Link the stages to create the flow of
   data from origin to destinations. </p>
  <p>To add stages to the canvas, you can use the stage library and connect stages manually, or you
   can use the Pipeline Creation Help Bar to automatically link a new stage to the pipeline.</p>
  <p>The pipeline canvas automatically saves and validates your work, and provides warnings for
   parts of the pipeline that are not yet complete or valid. You can view a full list of issues to
   help you configure the pipeline. You can also perform a data preview to view how the pipeline
   transforms data.</p>
  <p>To define pipeline properties, such as the delivery guarantee, constants or error handling,
   click in any unused space of the canvas. To define the properties for a stage, select the
   stage. You can configure metric or data alerts on the Rules tab of the pipeline properties panel.
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
