<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rjh_ntz_qr">
 <title>Using Runtime Parameters</title>
 <shortdesc>Runtime parameters are parameters that you define in a pipeline and then call from
        within that same pipeline. When you start the pipeline, you specify the parameter values to
        use. Use runtime parameters to specify values for pipeline properties when you start the
        pipeline.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>pipeline properties<indexterm>runtime
                    parameters</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>parameters<indexterm>pipeline</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>runtime
                    parameters<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>Use runtime parameters to
            define values for stage and pipeline properties. For example, you can define an error
            directory parameter that points to different directories on a test machine and a
            production machine. Or you can define a connection parameter that points to different
            database connections for an origin in the test and production environments.</p>
        <p>When you define a runtime parameter, you enter the default value to use. When you start
            the pipeline, you can specify another value to override the default. When the pipeline
            runs, the value replaces the name of the runtime parameter.</p>
        <note>If you shut down and then restart the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            without stopping the pipeline, the pipeline continues running with the last set
            parameter values.</note>
        <p>To implement runtime parameters, perform the following steps:<ol id="ol_m24_1bh_1s">
                <li>Define runtime parameters. </li>
                <li>Use an expression in the pipeline to call a runtime parameter.</li>
                <li>Start the pipeline with parameter values.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p product="SDC">When you monitor a pipeline started with parameters, you can view the
            parameter values that the pipeline is currently using.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
