<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_h5b_kcr_kz">
    <title>Runtime Values</title>
    <shortdesc>Runtime values are values that you define outside of the pipeline and use for stage
        and pipeline properties. You can change the values for each pipeline run without having to
        edit the pipeline. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>You can use runtime values for any pipeline property that allows the use of the
            expression language. You can, for example, use runtime values to represent batch sizes,
            timeouts, directories, and URI. You cannot use runtime values to represent fields.</p>
        <p>You can use the following methods of passing runtime values to pipelines:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Runtime parameters</dt>
                <dd>Use runtime parameters when you want to specify the values for pipeline
                    properties when you start the pipeline. </dd>
                <dd>You define runtime parameters when you configure the pipeline, and then you call
                    the parameters from within that pipeline. When you start the pipeline, you
                    specify the parameter values to use. </dd>
                <dd>Runtime parameters are defined for a single pipeline - only that pipeline can
                    call them.<note>In <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> versions earlier than 2.5.0.0, pipeline runtime parameters were named
                        pipeline constants. </note></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Runtime properties</dt>
                <dd>Use runtime properties when you want to define values for multiple pipeline
                    properties in a file.</dd>
                <dd>You define runtime properties in a file local to the <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    />, and then you call the properties from within a pipeline. At runtime, <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> loads the property values from the file. A runtime properties file can
                    contain multiple properties.</dd>
                <dd>Runtime properties are defined for the entire <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> - any pipeline can call them.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Runtime resources</dt>
                <dd>Use runtime resources when you want to secure sensitive information in files
                    with restricted permissions.</dd>
                <dd>You define runtime resources in a file local to the <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    />, and then you call the resources from within a pipeline. You can restrict the
                    permissions for the resource files to secure sensitive information. A resource
                    file must contain one piece of information.</dd>
                <dd>Runtime resources are defined for the entire <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> - any pipeline can call them.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <note>When configuring runtime values for pipelines run by <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/DPM-LongOnly"/>,
            all <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            /> that run the pipeline must have the values locally defined in the expected
            locations.</note>
    </conbody>
</concept>
