<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_azs_swf_jr">
 <title>Implicit and Explicit Validation</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>validation<indexterm>implicit and explicit</indexterm></indexterm><ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> performs
      two types of validation:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Implicit validation</dt>
          <dd>Implicit validation occurs by default as the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> UI
            saves your changes. Implicit validation lists missing or incomplete configuration, such
            as an unconnected stage or a required property that has not been configured. </dd>
          <dd>Errors found by implicit validation display in the Issues list. An error icons display
            on stages with undefined required properties and on the canvas for pipeline issues. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Explicit validation</dt>
          <dd>Explicit validation occurs when you click the Validate icon, request data preview, or
            start the pipeline. Explicit validation becomes available when implicit validation
            passes.</dd>
          <dd>Explicit validation is a semantic validation that checks all configured values for
            validity and verifies whether the pipeline can run as configured. </dd>
          <dd>For example, while implicit validation verifies that you entered a value for a URI,
            explicit validation tests the validity of the URI by connecting to the system. </dd>
          <dd>Errors found by explicit validation display in a list from the validation error
            message. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
