<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rby_1rl_rz">
 <title>Payload and Parameters</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>webhooks<indexterm>payload and parameters</indexterm></indexterm>You can include a
            request body or payload for PUT, POST, and DELETE request webhooks. Depending on the
            receiving system, the payload might not be used. For example, when using the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            REST API, you simply include all required information in the URL. </p>
        <p>When you configure a payload, you can use any valid content type, then specify the
            content type in the webhook properties. When defining a message, be sure to consider
            when the pipeline sends the webhook and include the information that the recipient
            needs. </p>
        <p>You can use parameters in the payload to include information about the action that
            triggered the webhook. For example, when configuring a webhook that sends a text message
            when a pipeline stops, you might include the pipeline name, pipeline state, and the time
            parameters in the message.</p>
        <p>Enclose parameters in double curly brackets, as follows:
            <codeblock>{{&lt;parameter name>>}}</codeblock></p>
        <p>You can use the following parameters in webhooks:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>state notification parameters</dt>
                    <dd>When configuring a state notification webhook, you can use the following
                        parameters: <ul id="ul_s3r_nvl_rz">
                            <li>PIPELINE_TITLE - The pipeline title or name.</li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_URL - The direct URL to the pipeline.</li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_STATE - The current state of the pipeline.</li>
                            <li>TIME - The time of the triggered request.</li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_STATE_MESSAGE - The pipeline state and any related
                                information, such as the last-saved offset or the error message for
                                error states.</li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_INPUT_RECORDS_COUNT - The number of records read.</li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_OUTPUT_RECORDS_COUNT - The number of records written. </li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_ERROR_RECORDS_COUNT - The number of error records. </li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_ERROR_MESSAGES_COUNT - The number of error messages.</li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_RUNTIME_PARAMETERS - The number of pipeline parameters. </li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_METRICS - Metrics data for the pipeline.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>For example, say you configure the pipeline to send a webhook only when the
                        pipeline transitions to the Stopped state - that is, when someone stops the
                        pipeline. You might use the following message in a JSON request body:
                        <codeblock>{  
   "text":"At {{TIME}}, a user stopped the {{PIPELINE_TITLE}} pipeline. \n &lt;To see the pipeline, click here: {{PIPELINE_URL}}"
}</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>However, if the pipeline is configured to send webhooks when the pipeline
                        changes to several different states, you might use a more generic message
                        and include the pipeline state in the message. For
                        example:<codeblock>{  
   "text":"The '{{PIPELINE_TITLE}}' pipeline changed state to {{PIPELINE_STATE}} at {{TIME}}. \n Pipeline status message: {{PIPELINE_STATE_MESSAGE}} \n &lt;{{PIPELINE_URL}}|Click here for details.>"
}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>alert parameters</dt>
                    <dd>When configuring an alert webhook, you can use the following parameters:<ul
                            id="ul_prs_bhs_rz">
                            <li>ALERT_CONDITION - The condition of the rule associated with the
                                alert.</li>
                            <li>ALERT_NAME - The alert label or name.</li>
                            <li>ALERT_TEXT - The text configured for the alert. </li>
                            <li>ALERT_VALUE - The value that triggered the condition. For example,
                                if the alert is configured to trigger upon reaching 1000 error
                                records, the alert value will be 1000.</li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_TITLE - The pipeline title.</li>
                            <li>PIPELINE_URL - The direct URL to the pipeline.</li>
                            <li>TIME - Time of the triggered request.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>For example, say you configure a pipeline to send a webhook alert each time
                        an alert triggers. To include some key information in the JSON request body,
                        you might try
                        this:<codeblock>{  
   "text":"{{ALERT_TEXT}}: At {{TIME}}, {{ALERT_NAME}} was triggered by {{ALERT_VALUE}} for the following condition: {{ALERT_CONDITION}}. \n This is for the {{PIPELINE_TITLE}} pipeline, at {{PIPELINE_URL}}"
}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
