<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ofb_svm_5bb">
 <title>Aggregator</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Aggregator
                    processor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>Aggregator</indexterm></indexterm>The
            Aggregator processor performs one or more aggregations within a window of time. The
            Aggregator processor displays the results in Monitor mode and can write the results to
            event records. The processor does not update records in the data stream.</p>
        <p>You might use aggregation results with <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            data alerts to generate threshold notifications. Or, you might write the events to a
            data store and use a third-party dashboard application to visualize the data.</p>
        <p>When you configure the Aggregator, you specify the window type and time window to use.
            This information determines how the processor displays data and generates events. You
            also specify the time zone to use and the aggregations to perform. </p>
        <p>When you configure an aggregation, you specify the aggregation name and display title and
            the aggregation function to use. You can optionally define a filter expression to
            process a subset of the data, and a group by expression to aggregate based on groups. </p>
        <p>To write the aggregation results to events, enable event generation and specify the type
            of event records to create. For general information about dataflow triggers and the
            event framework, see <xref
                href="../Event_Handling/EventFramework-Overview.dita#concept_cph_5h4_lx"/>. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
