<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_h5b_bf2_wbb">
 <title>Rolling Windows</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Aggregator processor<indexterm>rolling window, time window, and
                results</indexterm></indexterm>When using a rolling window, the Aggregator processor
            performs the aggregations on the set of records that pass through the processor within
            specific time windows. Use a rolling window to generate periodic historic analysis of
            the data passing through the pipeline.</p>
        <p>With a rolling window, the time windows are incremented based on the hour, rather than on
            the start time of the pipeline. </p>
        <p>For example, when you select a fifteen minute time window, the aggregations are
            calculated every fifteen minutes, starting on the hour. So if you start the pipeline at
            8:09, the first aggregation occurs at 8:15, and the following aggregations at 8:30,
            8:45, 9:00, and so on. In fact, if you start the pipeline anywhere between 8:01 and
            8:14, the aggregations start at 8:15 and continue every 15 minutes. </p>
        <p>For rolling windows, the processor creates the charts in Monitor mode based on the time
            window and the Number of Time Windows to Remember. For example, if you set the property
            to 4, and use a 15 minute time window, then the resulting charts display four 15 minute
            time windows.</p>
        <p>The processor also creates events with the results of the calculations based on the time
            window. So with a 15 minute time window, it generates events every 15 minutes, based on
            the hour. </p>
        <p>Note that the calculations from the first event can include less than a full time-window
            of records, for reasons described above. Similarly the last event, generated when the
            pipeline stops, can include calculations with less than a full time-window of
            records.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
