<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_abn_qyd_wbb">
 <title>Window Type, Time Windows, and Information Display</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Aggregator processor<indexterm>window type, time windows, and information
                    display</indexterm></indexterm>The aggregation window type determines the window
            of time that the Aggregator processor uses to calculate aggregations. It also determines
            how the processor generates charts and events.</p>
        <p>The time window is the period of time to use for the specified window type. Time window
            behavior is specific to the window type that you select. </p>
        <p>For example, when you configure a rolling window type with a one hour time window, the
            processor performs aggregations every hour on the hour using the records that passed
            through the processor during each hour. </p>
        <p>Conceptually, you might say that with a rolling window, records are static within the
            window where they occur. When records become part of a particular time window, they
            remain there. And once the calculations for a time window are complete, they remain
            static as well. </p>
        <p>In contrast, when you select a one hour time window for a sliding window type, the
            aggregations are always based on the records that passed through the processor in the
            past hour, providing an update of the calculations at regular intervals. </p>
        <p>Conceptually, the sliding window is locked into the current time, and records slide
            through the window. Records that have moved past the window are no longer part of
            sliding window calculations.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
