<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vlj_vph_yq">
 <title>Field Splitter</title>
 <shortdesc>The Field Splitter splits string data in a field based on a separator character and
  passes the separated data to new fields. Use the Field Splitter to split compound string values
  into individual components. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>For example, if a field contains an error code and error message separated by a dash, you can
   use the dash to separate the error code and error message information into different fields.</p>
  <p>The Field Splitter separates values into new fields based on the separator characters in the
   record. When splitting a record would result in more fields than expected, the Field Splitter can
   either include the remaining data as part of the last field or discard it.</p>
  <p>When splitting a record would result in fewer fields than expected, the Field Splitter can
   either pass data without the additional fields, discard the record, write the record to an error
   file, or stop the pipeline.</p>
  <section>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p>Say that a Field Splitter uses a comma to separate data into two fields and to discard records
    that cannot be split as requested. When it encounters a single comma, it passes the data before
    the comma to ErrorCode field and the data after the comma to the ErrorMessage field. If it
    encounters a second comma, it can either discard the extra data or include it in the last field. </p>
   <p>When the Field Splitter processes the following records:<simpletable frame="none"
     relcolwidth="1.0*" id="simpletable_dqy_dd3_yq">
     <strow>
      <stentry>
       <codeblock>GM-302,information that you might need
ME-3042,message about this error,"additional information from the server"
IMD-03234</codeblock>
      </stentry>
     </strow>
    </simpletable></p>
   <p>If you discard the extra data, the Field Splitter produces the following records:<simpletable
     frame="none" relcolwidth="1.0* 4.1*" id="simpletable_kxh_fd3_yq">
     <strow>
      <stentry>
       <codeblock><uicontrol>ErrorCode</uicontrol>
GM-302 
ME-3042</codeblock>
      </stentry>
      <stentry>
       <codeblock><uicontrol>Message</uicontrol>
information that you might need
message about this error</codeblock>
      </stentry>
     </strow>
    </simpletable></p>
   <p>If you keep the extra data, the Field Splitter produces the following records:</p>
   <p>
    <simpletable frame="none" relcolwidth="1.0* 4.85*" id="simpletable_mlt_p23_yq">
     <strow>
      <stentry>
       <codeblock><uicontrol>ErrorCode</uicontrol>
GM-302 
ME-3042</codeblock>
      </stentry>
      <stentry>
       <codeblock><uicontrol>Message</uicontrol>
information that you might need
message about this error,"additional information from the server"</codeblock>
      </stentry>
     </strow>
    </simpletable>
   </p>
   <p>Note that in both cases, the Field Splitter drops IMD-03234 because the record does not
    include enough data to be split.</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
