<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cy5_f3d_mz">
 <title>Missing and Extra Fields</title>
 <shortdesc>When you configure the Field Order processor, you specify the list of fields to order.
        An incoming record might be missing one of those fields or it might have some extra fields.
        You configure how the processor handles any missing or extra fields.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Field Order processor<indexterm>missing
                fields</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>missing fields<indexterm>Field
                    Order</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Field Order processor<indexterm>extra
                    fields</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>extra fields<indexterm>Field
                    Order</indexterm></indexterm>The Field Order processor can encounter the
            following types of fields in each record:</p>
  <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Missing fields</dt>
                    <dd>Missing fields are fields that you specified in the ordered list but that do
                        not exist in the record. For example, you list these fields in the following
                        order: FirstName, LastName, Age. However, an incoming record doesn't include
                        the Age field.</dd>
                    <dd>When the processor encounters a record with a missing field, it can either
                        handle the record based on the error handling configured for the stage or it
                        can use a default value for the missing field. If you configure the
                        processor to use a default value, you enter the default value and the data
                        type to use for the missing fields. The processor assigns the same default
                        value and type to each missing field.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Extra fields</dt>
                    <dd>Extra fields are fields that you did not specify in the ordered list but
                        that do exist in the record. For example, you list these fields in the
                        following order: FirstName, LastName, Age. However, an incoming record
                        includes a MiddleName field.</dd>
                    <dd>When the processor encounters a record with an extra field, it can either
                        handle the record based on the error handling configured for the stage or it
                        can discard all extra fields.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
