<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_krp_5fv_vy">
 <title>Field Order</title>
 <shortdesc>The Field Order processor orders fields in a map or list-map field and outputs the
        fields into a list-map or list root field. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>processors<indexterm>Field Order</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Field
                    Order<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>Use the Field Order processor
            for the following reasons:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Order the fields in a map field</dt>
                <dd>Fields in a map field have no defined order. Use the Field Order processor to
                    specify the order of the fields and then output the fields to either the
                    list-map or list root field which both retain field order.</dd>
                <dd>For example, let’s say your pipeline reads JSON data and you want to write that
                    data using the delimited data format. <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> uses a map root field for JSON data. However, for a destination to write
                    records as delimited data, the root field type must be list or list-map. You use
                    the Field Order processor to order the fields in the map root field and output
                    the ordered fields to a list-map root field. Then you can write the records as
                    delimited data.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Reorder the fields in a list-map field</dt>
                <dd>Fields in a list-map field have a defined order. Use the Field Order processor
                    when you need to reorder the fields, and then output the fields to the list-map
                    root field.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>When you configure the Field Order processor, you define the order of the fields. You
            specify whether to output the ordered fields to a list-map or list root field.</p>
        <p>You configure how the processor handles missing or extra fields in the record. You can
            also list any fields that you want the processor to discard from the record.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
