<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_is3_zkp_wq">
 <title>Field Type Converter</title>
 <shortdesc>The Field Type Converter converts the data types of fields to compatible data types. You
    might use the Field Type Converter to convert the data types of fields before performing
    calculations. You can also use the Field Type Converter to change the scale of decimal
    data.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Field Type Converter
          processor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>Field
          Type Converter</indexterm></indexterm>You configure the processor to use one of the
      following methods to convert data types:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>By Field Name</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Convert the data type of a field with the specified name. For example, you can convert
            a field named dropoff_datetime with the String data type to the Date data type. </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>By Data Type</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Convert the data type of all fields with the specified type. For example, you can
            convert all fields with the Decimal data type to the String data type.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>You can convert data types by field name or by data type. You cannot use both methods in the
      same stage. </p>
    <p>Configure the conversion for an appropriate, compatible data type. Consider the actual data
      in the field as well, since even valid conversions can truncate data. For example, converting
      a field from Integer to Decimal is valid. Converting a field from Decimal to Integer is also
      valid, but the conversion can truncate any decimal values in the data.</p>
  <p><note outputclass="" type="tip">You can use data preview to verify the data in the fields.
      </note>When you convert string data to a Date, Datetime, or Time data type or when you convert
      date, datetime, or time data to the String data type, you specify the date format that you
      want to use. You can use any valid format.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
