<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mnj_zhq_bw">
 <title>HBase Lookup</title>
    <shortdesc>The HBase Lookup processor performs key-value lookups in HBase and passes the lookup
        values to fields. Use the HBase Lookup to enrich records with additional data.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>HBase Lookup
                    processor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>HBase
                    Lookup</indexterm></indexterm>For example, you can configure the processor to
            use a department_ID field as the key to look up department name values in HBase, and
            pass the values to a new department_name output field.</p>
        <p>When you configure the HBase Lookup processor, you specify whether the processor performs
            a bulk lookup of all keys in a batch, or performs an individual lookup of each key in a
            record. You define the key to look up in HBase, and specify the output field to write
            the lookup values to. </p>
        <p>You can configure the processor to locally cache the key-value pairs to improve
            performance.</p>
        <p>You also specify the HBase configuration properties, including the ZooKeeper Quorum,
            parent znode, and table name. When necessary, you can enable Kerberos authentication,
            specify an HBase user, and add additional HBase configuration properties.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
