<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_txl_x4s_bw">
 <title>Lookup Key</title>
 <shortdesc>When you define the lookup key, you specify the row and optionally the column and
        timestamp to look up in HBase. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The following table describes each lookup parameter that you can use to define the lookup
            key:</p>
        <p>
            <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_lh5_myy_bw">
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.5*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.0*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Lookup Parameter</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Row</entry>
                            <entry>The row to look up in HBase. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Column</entry>
                            <entry>The column of the row to use. The column must use the following
                                format:<codeblock>&lt;column-family>:&lt;qualifier></codeblock></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Timestamp</entry>
                            <entry>The timestamp associated with the row and column. The timestamp
                                must be a Datetime type.</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </p>
        <p>You can define the lookup key using any of the following combinations of the lookup parameters:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Row, Column, and Timestamp</dt>
                    <dd>When you define all of the lookup parameters, HBase Lookup processor returns
                        the value of the specified row, column, and timestamp. The processor passes
                        a single String value to the output field.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Row and Column</dt>
                    <dd>When you define the row and column lookup parameters, HBase Lookup processor
                        returns the value of the specified row and column with the most recent
                        timestamp. The processor passes a single String value to the output
                        field.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Row and Timestamp</dt>
                    <dd>When you define the row and timestamp lookup parameters, HBase Lookup
                        processor looks up all values of the row in all columns with the specified
                        timestamp. The processor passes a map of String values that contain the
                        HBase column family, qualifier, and value for the specified row. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, if the row exists in three columns with the specified
                        timestamp, the processor returns a map of string values in the following
                        format:<codeblock>/&lt;first column family:qualifier>: &lt;value>
/&lt;second column family:qualifier>: &lt;value>
/&lt;third column family:qualifier>: &lt;value></codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Row</dt>
                    <dd>When you define only the row lookup parameter, HBase Lookup processor looks
                        up all values of the row in all columns with the most recent timestamp. The
                        processor passes a map of String values that contain the HBase column
                        family, qualifier, and value for the specified row. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, if the row exists in three columns, the processor returns a map
                        of string values in the following
                        format:<codeblock>/&lt;first column family:qualifier>: &lt;value>
/&lt;second column family:qualifier>: &lt;value>
/&lt;third column family:qualifier>: &lt;value></codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
