<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_zbk_jk3_fw">
 <title> Database, Table, and Partition Expressions</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Hive Metadata processor<indexterm>database, table, and partition
                    expressions</indexterm></indexterm>You can configure the following expressions
            in the Hive Metadata processor:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Database and table expressions</dt>
                    <dd>The database expression represents the database where Hadoop FS or MapR FS
                        destination should write the record. If you omit the database expression,
                        the processor uses the default Hive database. </dd>
                    <dd>The table expression represents the table to use. If the table doesn't
                        exist, the processor generates a metadata record to create the table.</dd>
                    <dd>The database and table expressions are also incorporated into the
                        targetDirectory to allow record-based writes to the database. </dd>
                    <dd>Tips for configuring the database and table expressions:<ul
                            id="ul_osg_jn3_fw">
                            <li>If all records are to be written to a single database or table, you
                                can enter the database or table name instead of an expression. </li>
                            <li>If the database or table name can be extrapolated from record data
                                or header attributes, you can enter an expression that evaluates to
                                the database or table name. </li>
                            <li>When necessary, you can use an Expression Evaluator earlier in the
                                pipeline to perform calculations and write the results to a new
                                field or a header attribute, to be used by the Hive Metadata
                                processor. </li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl><dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Partition configuration information</dt>
                    <dd>You can optionally configure partition properties to write to partitions.
                        When you configure partition information, you state the Hive partition
                        column name, an expression that evaluates to the partition name, and the
                        data format of the partition data. <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/P-HM-phPartitionDF"
                        />
                    </dd>
                    <dd>Like with database and table expressions, you can configure the partition
                        expression as needed:<ul id="ul_jzg_1r3_fw">
                            <li>If all records are to be written to a single partition, you can
                                enter the partition name for the expression.</li>
                            <li>If the partition depends on information in the record, you can enter
                                an expression that evaluates to the partition. </li>
                            <li>When necessary, you might use an Expression Evaluator earlier in the
                                pipeline to generate the partition name and write it to the record
                                as a new field or the record header as a header attribute. </li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>You can use datetime variables such as ${YYYY()} or ${DD()} to create
                        datetime-based partitions. When creating datetime-based partitions, consider
                        the time basis that you want to use. By default, the processor uses the time
                        of processing as the time basis, but you can use the time associated with a
                        record as well. </dd>
                    <dd>For details about datetime variables, see <xref
                            href="../Expression_Language/DateTimeVariables.dita#concept_gh4_qd2_sv"
                        />.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
