<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pg1_1fl_3w">
 <title>Time Basis</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Hive Metadata processor<indexterm>time basis</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>time
                    basis<indexterm>Hive Metadata processor</indexterm></indexterm>The time basis
            helps determine when datetime-based partitions are created. The partitions are used in
            the metadata record and as part of the targetDirectory path. You can use the following
            times as the time basis:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>processing time</dt>
                    <dd>When you use processing time as the time basis, the processor uses the
                        processing time and the partition value expression to determine the
                        partition value to use in the metadata record and the partition portion of
                        the targetDirectory header attribute. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, say a partition value expression creates a new partition every
                        day and the time basis is the time of processing. Then, the processor
                        generates a daily metadata record that the Hive Metastore destination uses
                        to create the daily partition. And the processor adds the daily partition
                        value to the targetDirectory path. </dd>
                    <dd>To use the processing time as the time basis, use the following expression:
                            <codeph>${time:now()}</codeph>. This is the default time basis. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>record-based time</dt>
                    <dd>When you use the time associated with a record as the time basis, you
                        specify a Date field in the record as part of the partition value
                        expression. The processor uses the datetimes associated with the records and
                        the partition value expression to determine the partition value to use in
                        the metadata record and the partition portion of the targetDirectory header
                        attribute. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, say a partition value expression creates directories every hour
                        and the time basis is based on the record. Then, for every hour associated
                        with a record, the processor generates a metadata record so the Hive
                        Metastore destination can create hourly partitions as needed. And the
                        processor adds the hourly partition value to the targetDirectory path.  </dd>
                    <dd>To use a time associated with the record, use an expression that calls a
                        field and resolves to a datetime value, such as
                            <codeph>${record:value("/Timestamp")}</codeph>. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
