<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_g3p_sss_dw">
 <title>Metadata Records and Record Header Attributes</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Hive Metadata processor<indexterm>metadata records and record header
                    attributes</indexterm></indexterm>The Hive Metadata processor produces the
            following specialized output: </p>
  <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>metadata record</dt>
                    <dd>When encountering compatible metadata changes, the Hive Metadata processor
                        generates a metadata record. The metadata record passes the following
                        information to the Hive Metastore destination:<ul id="ul_njs_x5j_kw">
                            <li>The expected table structure for compatible changes, based on the
                                    record.<p
                                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/P-HM-CompatChanges"
                                /></li>
                            <li>Any user-defined record header attributes configured in the
                                stage.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>When the Hive Metastore destination receives the metadata record, the
                        destination performs a final check against Hive metadata and creates or
                        alters tables as needed.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>data record header attributes</dt>
                    <dd>The Hive Metadata processor adds the following attributes to the record
                        header for data records:<ul id="ul_oj1_1ws_dw">
                            <li>targetDirectory - The location where each record should be
                                    written.<p>The processor generates the directory based on the
                                    database, table, and partition information for each record and
                                    writes it to the targetDirectory header attribute. </p><p
                                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Parquet-TargetDir1"
                                    /><p
                                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Parquet-TargetDir2"
                                    /><note
                                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Parquet-TargetDir-Note"
                                    /><p>To use this header attribute, configure the Hadoop FS or
                                    MapR FS destination to write records using the directory in the
                                    record header.</p></li>
                            <li>avroSchema - The Avro schema for the record. <p>The processor writes
                                    the Avro schema in the avroSchema header attribute for each
                                    record. When the processor notes a compatible change in the Avro
                                    schema, it generates a new Avro schema. This attribute is used
                                    for both Avro and Parquet data. </p><p>To use this header
                                    attribute, configure the Hadoop FS or MapR FS destination to
                                    write records using the Avro schema in the record
                                header.</p></li>
                            <li> roll - An indicator to roll the file associated with the record.
                                    <p>The processor generates a roll indicator only when the Avro
                                    schema changes in a compatible way. Records with incompatible
                                    changes are sent to the stage for error handling.</p><p>To use
                                    this header attribute, configure the Hadoop FS or MapR FS
                                    destination to roll records when encountering the roll attribute
                                    in the record header. And then, use the default "roll" as the
                                    name of the header attribute. </p></li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>For more information about using destinations to process these attributes,
                        see <xref
                            href="../Pipeline_Design/RecordBasedWrites-overview.dita#concept_lmn_gdc_1w"/>.
                        For general information about record header attributes, see <xref
                            href="../Pipeline_Design/RecordHeaderAttributes.dita#concept_wn2_jcz_dz"
                        />. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
