<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ekz_wrz_zw">
 <title>Response Header Fields</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>The HTTP Client processor can include response header field information in records. You can
            write the data to a record as follows:  <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Record header attributes</dt>
                    <dd>The processor can write data in response header fields to corresponding
                        record header attributes. </dd>
                    <dd>When writing to record header attributes, you define a prefix for the
                        attributes to avoid name conflicts. The processor then appends the response
                        header field name to the prefix. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, if you define "info-" as the prefix, then data in the
                        content-encoding response header field is written to the
                        "info-content-encoding" record header attribute.</dd>
                    <dd>For general information about record header attributes, see <xref
                            href="../Pipeline_Design/RecordHeaderAttributes.dita#concept_wn2_jcz_dz"
                        />.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Record field</dt>
                    <dd>The processor can also write the response header fields to a field in the
                        record. The processor writes  the response header fields to the record field
                        as a map of key-value pairs where the key is the response header field name. </dd>
                    <dd>When writing to a field, you specify the field to use. If the field includes
                        data, the processor overwrites the data. If the field does not exist, the
                        processor creates the field. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
