<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_jrj_hmh_jw">
 <title>Data Formats</title>
 <shortdesc>The HTTP Client processor writes the server response to the specified field in the
        record. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>HTTP Client processor<indexterm>data
                formats</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>data formats<indexterm>HTTP Client
                    processor</indexterm></indexterm>The processor treats the response as the
            specified data format and processes data differently based on the data format:</p>
  <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>JSON</dt>
                    <dd>Writes a parsed JSON response to the specified field. </dd>
                    <dd>When an object exceeds the specified maximum object length, the processor
                        processes the object based on the error handling configured for the stage. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Text</dt>
                    <dd>Writes the response as a string to the specified field. </dd>
                    <dd>When a line exceeds the specified maximum line length, the processor
                        truncates the line. The processor adds a boolean field named Truncated to
                        indicate if the line was truncated. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>XML</dt>
                    <dd>Writes the XML response to the specified field. </dd>
                    <dd>When specified, the processor uses the delimiter element to nest additional
                        elements in the field. </dd>
                    <dd>When a record exceeds the specified maximum record length, the processor
                        skips the record and continues processing with the next record. It sends the
                        skipped record to the pipeline for error handling. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
