<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qfd_tpm_5y">
    <title>Define the CRUD Operation</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>JDBC Tee processor<indexterm>CRUD operation</indexterm></indexterm>The JDBC
            Tee processor can insert, update, or delete data. The processor writes the records based
            on the CRUD operation defined in a CRUD operation header attribute or in
            operation-related stage properties. </p>
        <p>You can define the CRUD operation in the following ways:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>CRUD operation header attribute</dt>
                    <dd id="RecordHeaderAtt">You can define the CRUD operation in a CRUD operation
                        record header attribute. The processor looks for the CRUD operation to use
                        in the sdc.operation.type record header attribute. </dd>
                    <dd>The attribute can contain one of the following numeric values:<ul
                            id="ul_smy_qf3_1y">
                            <li>1 for INSERT</li>
                            <li>2 for DELETE</li>
                            <li>3 for UPDATE</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>If your pipeline includes a CRUD-enabled origin that processes changed data,
                        the processor simply reads the operation type from the sdc.operation.type
                        header attribute that the origin generates. If your pipeline uses a non-CDC
                        origin, you can use the Expression Evaluator or a scripting processor to
                        define the record header attribute. For more information about <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> changed data processing and a list of CDC-enabled origins, see <xref
                            href="../Pipeline_Design/CDC-Overview.dita#concept_apw_l2c_ty"/>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Operation stage properties</dt>
                    <dd id="DefaultOperation">You define a default operation in the processor
                        properties. The processor uses the default operation when the
                        sdc.operation.type record header attribute is not set.</dd>
                    <dd id="UnsupportedOp">You can also define how to handle records with
                        unsupported operations defined in the sdc.operation.type header attribute.
                        The processor can discard them, send them to error, or use the default
                        operation. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
