<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ysc_ccy_hw">
 <title>JDBC Lookup</title>
 <shortdesc>The JDBC Lookup processor uses a JDBC connection to perform lookups in a database table
        and pass the lookup values to fields. Use the JDBC Lookup to enrich records with additional
        data.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>JDBC Lookup
                    processor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>JDBC
                    Lookup</indexterm></indexterm>For example, you can configure the processor to
            use a department_ID field as the column to look up department name values in a database
            table, and pass the values to a new department_name output field.</p>
        <p>When a lookup results in multiple matches, the JDBC Lookup processor can return the first
            matching value or return all matching values in separate records. </p>
        <p>When you configure JDBC Lookup, you specify connection information and custom JDBC
            configuration properties to determine how the processor connects to the database. You
            configure the SQL query to define the data to look up in the database, specify the
            output fields to write the lookup values to, and choose the multiple match behavior. You
            can optionally define a default value to use for fields with missing values.</p>
        <p>You can configure the processor to locally cache the lookup values to improve
            performance.</p>
        <p>To use a JDBC version older than 4.0, you can specify the driver class name and define a
            health check query.</p>
        <p product="SDC">When you monitor a pipeline that includes the JDBC Lookup processor, you
            can view stage statistics about the number of queries the processor makes and the
            average time of the queries.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
