<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_j1t_ntc_pr">
 <title>Processing Mode</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Jython Evaluator<indexterm>processing
    mode</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processing modes<indexterm>Jython
    Evaluator</indexterm></indexterm>The Jython Evaluator processes data differently based on the
   processing mode that you select. Use one of the following processing modes: <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Record by Record</dt>
     <dd>The processor calls the script for each incoming record. The processor passes the record to
      the script as a map, and then processes the record. </dd>
     <dd>The code does not require additional error handling logic. The processor handles error
            records based on the Error Record property defined for the processor.</dd>
     <dd>Use this mode to process one record at a time or to avoid creating error handling logic for
      the code. Since this mode calls the script for each record, this might affect the performance
      of the pipeline.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Record Batch</dt>
     <dd>The processor calls the script for each incoming batch of records. The processor passes the
            batch to the script as an array and processes the batch at one time. The array name is
            "records."</dd>
     <dd>The script must include error handling code. </dd>
     <dd>Use this mode to process a batch of data at a time. At the end of the script, include the
      following two functions:<ul id="ul_qws_5gy_pr">
       <li>out.write (&lt;record>) - Passes the records to the next stage or stages in
        pipeline.</li>
       <li>err.write (&lt;record>, &lt;message>) - Passes error records to the pipeline for error
        handling. </li>
      </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
