<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tr1_spd_sr">
 <title>Log Formats</title>
 <shortdesc>When you use Log Parser to parse log data, you define the format of the log files to be
  read. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>You can use the following log formats:<draft-comment author="Loretta">These are copied from the
    origin log formats file. Just the last lines in log4j are removed since we cannot process stack
    traces in the processor. </draft-comment></p>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Common Log Format</dt>
     <dd>A standardized text format used by web servers to generate log files. Also known as the
      NCSA (National Center for Supercomputing Applications) Common Log format.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Combined Log Format</dt>
     <dd>A standardized text format based on the common log format that includes additional
      information. Also known as the Apache/NCSA Combined Log Format.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Apache Error Log Format</dt>
     <dd>The standardized error log format generated by the Apache HTTP Server 2.2.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Apache Access Log Custom Format</dt>
     <dd>A customizable access log generated by the Apache HTTP Server 2.2. Use the Apache HTTP
      Server version 2.2 syntax to define the format of the log file. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Regular Expression</dt>
     <dd>Use a regular expression to define the structure of log data, and then assign the field or
      fields represented by each group.  </dd>
     <dd>Use any valid regular expression.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Grok Pattern</dt>
     <dd>Use a grok pattern to define the structure of log data. You can use the grok patterns
      supported by the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>. You can
      also define a custom grok pattern and then use it as part of the log format. </dd>
     <dd>For more information about supported grok patterns, see <xref
       href="../Apx-GrokPatterns/GrokPatterns.dita#concept_vdk_xjb_wr"/>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>log4j</dt>
     <dd>A customizable format generated by the Apache Log4j 1.2 logging utility. You can use the
      default format or specify a custom format. Use the Apache Log4j version 1.2 syntax to define
      the format of the log file.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
