<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hpr_twm_jq">
  <title>Processors</title>
  <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>processors<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>A processor stage represents
      a type of data processing that you want to perform. You can use as many processors in a
      pipeline as you need.</p>
    <p>You can use different processors based on the execution mode of the pipeline. </p>
    <p>In standalone or cluster pipelines, you can use the following processors:<ul
        id="ul_mxz_jxm_jq">
        <li><xref href="Aggregator.dita#concept_ofb_svm_5bb">Aggregator</xref> - Performs
          aggregations and displays the results in Monitor mode and writes the results to events
          when enabled. This processor does not update the records being evaluated.</li>
        <li><xref href="Base64Decoder.dita#concept_ujj_spy_kv">Base64 Field Decoder</xref> - Decodes
          Base64 encoded data to binary data.</li>
        <li><xref href="Base64Encoder.dita#concept_wtr_mpy_kv">Base64 Field Encoder</xref> - Encodes
          binary data using Base64.</li>
        <li><xref href="DataParser.dita#concept_xw3_4xk_r1b">Data Parser</xref> - Parses NetFlow or
          syslog data embedded in a field.</li>
        <li><xref href="Delay.dita#concept_ez5_pvf_wbb">Delay</xref> - Delays passing a batch to the
          rest of the pipeline.</li>
        <li><xref href="Expression.dita#concept_zm2_pp3_wq">Expression Evaluator</xref> - Performs
          calculations on data. Can also add or modify record header attributes.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldFlattener.dita#concept_njn_3kk_fx">Field Flattener</xref> - Flattens
          nested fields.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldHasher.dita#concept_ivv_c3k_wq">Field Hasher</xref> - Uses an algorithm
          to encode sensitive data.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldMasker.dita#concept_hjc_t4k_wq">Field Masker</xref> - Masks sensitive
          string data.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldMerger.dita#concept_pgm_tsl_gt">Field Merger</xref> - Merges fields in
          complex lists or maps.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldOrder.dita#concept_krp_5fv_vy">Field Order</xref> - Orders fields in a
          map or list-map root field type and outputs the fields into a list-map or list root field
          type. </li>
        <li><xref href="ListPivoter.dita#concept_ekg_313_qw">Field Pivoter</xref> - Pivots data in a
          list, map, or list-map field and creates a record for each item in the field.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldRemover.dita#concept_jdd_blr_wq">Field Remover</xref> - Removes fields
          from a record.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldRenamer.dita#concept_vyv_zsg_ht">Field Renamer</xref> - Renames fields
          in a record. </li>
        <li><xref href="FieldSplitter.dita#concept_vlj_vph_yq">Field Splitter</xref> - Splits the
          string values in a field into different fields.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldTypeConverter.dita#concept_is3_zkp_wq">Field Type Converter</xref> -
          Converts the data types of fields.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldZip.dita#concept_o3b_t1k_yx">Field Zip</xref> - Merges list data from
          two fields.</li>
        <li><xref href="GeoIP.dita#concept_fch_fc3_ms">Geo IP</xref>- Returns geolocation and IP
          intelligence information for a specified IP address. </li>
        <li><xref href="Groovy.dita#concept_ldh_sct_gv">Groovy Evaluator</xref> - Processes records
          based on custom Groovy code.</li>
        <li><xref href="HBaseLookup.dita#concept_mnj_zhq_bw">HBase Lookup</xref> - Performs
          key-value lookups in HBase to enrich records with data.</li>
        <li><xref href="HiveMetadata.dita#concept_rz5_nft_zv">Hive Metadata</xref> - Generates Hive
          metadata and write information for HDFS. </li>
        <li><xref href="HTTPClient.dita#concept_ghx_ypr_fw">HTTP Client</xref> - The HTTP Client
          processor sends requests to an HTTP resource URL and writes the results to a field.</li>
        <li><xref href="JavaScript.dita#concept_n2p_jgf_lr">JavaScript Evaluator</xref> - Processes
          records based on custom JavaScript code. </li>
        <li><xref href="JDBCLookup.dita#concept_ysc_ccy_hw">JDBC Lookup</xref> - Performs lookups in
          a database table through a JDBC connection.</li>
        <li><xref href="JDBCTee.dita#concept_qbx_lcy_hw">JDBC Tee</xref> - Writes data to a database
          table through a JDBC connection, and enriches records with data from generated database
          columns.</li>
        <li><xref href="JSONGenerator.dita#concept_jmg_hw1_h1b">JSON Generator</xref> - Serializes
          data from a field to a JSON-encoded string. </li>
        <li><xref href="JSONParser.dita#concept_bs1_4t3_yq">JSON Parser</xref> - Parses a JSON
          object embedded in a string field.</li>
        <li><xref href="Jython.dita#concept_a1h_lkf_lr">Jython Evaluator</xref> - Processes records
          based on custom Jython code.</li>
        <li><xref href="KuduLookup.dita#concept_a1x_3wl_p1b">Kudu Lookup</xref> - Performs lookups
          in Kudu to enrich records with data.</li>
        <li><xref href="LogParser.dita#concept_ulm_qdq_fs">Log Parser</xref> - Parses log data in a
          field based on the specified log format.</li>
        <li><xref href="RedisLookup.dita#concept_ng3_lpr_pv">Redis Lookup</xref> - Performs
          key-value lookups in Redis to enrich records with data.</li>
        <li><xref href="SalesforceLookup.dita#concept_k23_3rk_yx">Salesforce Lookup</xref> -
          Performs lookups in Salesforce to enrich records with data.</li>
        <li><xref href="SchemaGenerator.dita#concept_rfz_ks3_x1b">Schema Generator</xref> -
          Generates a schema for each record and writes the schema to a record header attribute. </li>
        <li><xref href="Spark.dita#concept_cpx_1lm_zx">Spark Evaluator</xref> - Processes data based
          on a custom Spark application.</li>
        <li><xref href="StaticLookup.dita#concept_aqz_t4r_pv">Static Lookup</xref> - Performs
          key-value lookups in local memory.</li>
        <li><xref href="StreamSelector.dita#concept_tqv_t5r_wq">Stream Selector</xref> - Routes data
          to different streams based on conditions.</li>
        <li><xref href="ValueReplacer.dita#concept_o5k_dmf_zq">Value Replacer</xref> - Replaces
          existing nulls or specified values with constants or nulls. </li>
        <li><xref href="XMLFlattener.dita#concept_ck4_255_sv">XML Flattener</xref> - Flattens XML
          data in a string field.</li>
        <li><xref href="XMLParser.dita#concept_dtt_q5q_k5">XML Parser</xref> - Parses XML data in a
          string field. </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>In standalone pipelines, you can also use the following processor:<ul id="ul_zw2_tp5_sbb">
        <li><xref href="RDeduplicator.dita#concept_z3m_v52_zq">Record Deduplicator</xref> - Removes
          duplicate records.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>In edge pipelines, you can use the following processors:<ul id="ul_imx_tp5_sbb">
        <li><xref href="Expression.dita#concept_zm2_pp3_wq">Expression Evaluator</xref> - Performs
          calculations on data. Can also add or modify record header attributes.</li>
        <li><xref href="FieldRemover.dita#concept_jdd_blr_wq">Field Remover</xref> - Removes fields
          from a record.</li>
        <li><xref href="StreamSelector.dita#concept_tqv_t5r_wq">Stream Selector</xref> - Routes data
          to different streams based on conditions.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>To help create or test pipelines, you can use the following development processors:<ul
        id="ul_c3m_m1p_qv">
        <li>
          <p>Dev Identity</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Dev Random Error</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Dev Record Creator </p>
        </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>For more information, see <xref href="../Pipeline_Design/DevStages.dita#concept_czx_ktn_ht"
      />.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
