<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hjk_b4l_vq">
 <title>Referencing Field Names and Field Paths</title>
 <shortdesc>When a pipeline is valid for preview, you can generally select fields from a list. When
                a list is not available or when you are defining a new field name, you need to use
                the appropriate format for the field name.  </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>processors<indexterm>referencing field
                                names</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>field
                                        names<indexterm>referencing</indexterm></indexterm>If you
                        think of the record as a root directory, a reference to a field is the path
                        to the field, or field path. </p>
                <p>When a record is a line of text, the fields are just one level removed from the
                        root. So a reference to a field does not require a path. You can reference
                        the field as follows:<codeblock>/&lt;field name></codeblock></p>
    <p>So to reference a CITY field in a line of text, enter "/CITY".</p>
    <p>When a record is complex, like a JSON object, the root object might include many additional
                        objects. In this case, a reference to a field is the path to the field as
                        follows:<codeblock>/&lt;path to field>/&lt;field name></codeblock></p>
    <p>For example, the following field path describes an employeeName field several levels deep in
                        a JSON object: /region/division/group/employeeName.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
