<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_k23_3rk_yx">
 <title>Salesforce Lookup</title>
 <shortdesc>The Salesforce Lookup processor performs lookups in a Salesforce object and passes the
        lookup values to fields. Use the Salesforce Lookup to enrich records with additional
        data.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Salesforce Lookup
                    processor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>Salesforce
                    Lookup</indexterm></indexterm>For example, you can configure the processor to
            use an account_number field as the field to look up account name values in a Salesforce
            object, and pass the values to a new account_name output field.</p>
        <p>When you configure the Salesforce Lookup processor, you define connection information
            that the processor uses to connect to Salesforce, including the Salesforce API
            version.</p>
        <p>You specify the lookup mode and related properties, and the output fields for return
            values. You can optionally define a default value to use for fields with missing values.
            You can also configure the processor to locally cache the lookup values to improve
            performance. </p>
        <p>When using the SOQL Query lookup mode, and either the SOAP API or the Bulk API version
                <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/Reusable_Topics/Salesforce-APIVersion.dita#task_qzy_4ck_dy/ph_SalesforceAPIVersion"
            /> or later, you can configure the processor to retrieve deleted records from the
            Salesforce recycle bin.</p>
        <p>The processor generates Salesforce field attributes that provide additional information
            about each field. </p>
        <p>You can optionally use an HTTP proxy to connect to Salesforce.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
