<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kss_hgq_1bb">
 <title>Generated Avro Schema</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>The Avro schema that the Schema Generator creates includes the following information:<ul
                id="ul_pqr_mgq_1bb">
                <li>Schema type set to "record".</li>
                <li>Schema name based on the Schema Name property.</li>
                <li>Namespace based on the Namespace property, when configured.</li>
                <li>Schema description in the doc field based on the Doc property, when
                    configured.</li>
                <li>A map of field names with related attributes based on the record schema and
                    related properties defined in the stage, such as whether fields can include null
                    values.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>For example, the following Avro schema is generated when you set the Name property to
            MyAvroSchema, and omit the optional Namespace and Doc properties:</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>{"type":"record","name":"MyAvroSchema","namespace":"","doc":"","fields":[{"name":"name","type":["null","string"],"default":null},{"name":"id","type":["null","int"],"default":null},{"name":"instock","type":["null","boolean"],"default":false},{"name":"cost","type":["null",{"type":"bytes","logicalType":"decimal","precision":10,"scale":2}],"default":null}]}</codeblock>
        </p>
        <p>The record described by this schema includes the following fields:<ul id="ul_ftj_5hq_1bb">
                <li>name - A string field.</li>
                <li>id - An integer field.</li>
                <li>instock - A boolean field.</li>
                <li>cost - A decimal field.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>The processor is configured to allow nulls in schema fields and to use null as the
            default value.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
