<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rfz_ks3_x1b">
 <title>Schema Generator</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Schema Generator
                    processor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>Schema
                    Generator</indexterm></indexterm>The Schema Generator processor generates a
            schema based on the structure of a record and writes the schema into a record header
            attribute. The Schema Generator generates Avro schemas at this time. </p>
        <p>You might use the Schema Generator in a pipeline to generate the latest version of the
            Avro schema before writing records to destination systems. </p>
        <p>When you configure a Schema Generator processor, you can specify the namespace and
            description for the Avro schema. You can specify whether schema fields should allow
            nulls and whether schema fields should default to null. You can specify default values
            for most Avro primitive types, and you can allow the processor to use a larger data
            types for Avro types without a direct equivalent.</p>
        <p>You can specify the names for precision and scale attributes for decimal values. And you
            can configure a default precision and scale for any decimal fields without that
            information or with an invalid precision or scale.</p>
        <p>When appropriate, you can configure the Schema Generator to cache a number of schemas,
            and to apply the schemas to records based on the expression defined in the Cache Key
            Expression property. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
