<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_oy4_tbf_cr">
 <title>Sample Conditions for Streams</title>
 <shortdesc>A Stream Selector condition defines the data that passes to the associated stream. All
  incoming data that meets the condition passes to the stream. Use the expression language to define
  conditions. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>When you define a condition, you typically base it on values in one or more fields in the
   record. </p>
  <section>
   <title>Sample Conditions</title>
   <p>The following conditions are common scenarios that you might adapt:<dl>
     <dlentry>
      <dt><codeph>${str:contains(record:value("/line"), "ERROR")}</codeph></dt>
      <dd>Checks the data in the Line field for the text, "ERROR". </dd>
      <dd>If the field contains "ERROR", the record passes to the stream. </dd>
     </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
      <dt><codeph>${str:contains(str:toLower(record:value("/message")), "fatal")</codeph></dt>
      <dd>Lowercases the string values in the Message field, and then checks the data in the field
       for "fatal". </dd>
      <dd>If the field contains "fatal", the record passes to the stream. </dd>
     </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
      <dt><codeph>${record:value("/priority") &gt; 1}</codeph></dt>
      <dd>If the value in the Priority field is greater than one, the record passes to the stream.
      </dd>
     </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
      <dt><codeph>${record:value("/AccountID")==null}</codeph></dt>
      <dd>If the AccountID field is null, the record passes to the stream.</dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl></p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
 <related-links>
  <link href="ConfiguringExpressionsConditions.dita#concept_ofb_1cm_xq"/>
  <link href="../Expression_Language/ExpressionLanguage_overview.dita#concept_p54_4kl_vq"/>
 </related-links>
</concept>
