<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_sn5_5kx_wq">
 <title>Handling Non-Matching Records</title>
 <shortdesc>When a record does not match any condition, the Stream Selector can use the error
  handling for unmatched records or you can configure a default stream that accepts the unmatched
  records:</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Error handling for unmatched records</dt>
     <dd>The Unmatched Record Handling property determines how the Stream Selector handles records
      that do not match any conditions. The Stream Selector can perform one of the following
       actions:<ul id="ul_jhg_fkx_wq">
       <li>Discard the record.</li>
       <li>Send the error to the pipeline for error handling.</li>
       <li>Stop the pipeline.</li>
      </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Create a default stream</dt>
     <dd>You can create a default stream to capture records that do not match other conditions. When
      you create a default stream, you connect the output to a branch in the pipeline. </dd>
     <dd>You can configure the branch to perform additional processing or write it directly to a
      destination. You might write the data to a real destination or use the Trash destination. </dd>
     <dd>When you use the Trash destination, the pipeline discards the records. But unlike
      discarding the record as part of error handling, the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> keeps
      metrics for the Trash destination so you can view the number of records being discarded and
      you can create alerts around this metric. </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
  <p>
   <draft-comment author="Loretta">Post beta, add an example. drafted something earlier: In the
    following example, Stream 1 passes data with no locale information to a stream that replaces the
    nulls before writing to the Kafka destination. Stream 2 passes data with the English locale
    directly to the same Kafka destination. Stream 3 uses the default condition to capture data from
    other locales and stream it to a different destination.</draft-comment>
  </p>
  <p> </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
