<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_o5k_dmf_zq">
 <title>Value Replacer</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Value Replacer
                    processor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>Value
                    Replacer</indexterm></indexterm>The Value Replacer replaces values in fields.
            You can use the Value Replacer to replace null values in specified fields with
            constants, replace existing field values with nulls, and replace specified field values
            with constants based on a simple condition. </p>
        <p>When replacing values based on a condition, you can use the following operators: <ul
                id="ul_vxj_dfs_3x">
                <li>Less than ( &lt; ) - Converts all values less than the specified value to the
                    replacement value.</li>
                <li>Greater than ( > ) - Converts all values greater than the specified value to the
                    replacement value. </li>
                <li>Equals ( = ) - Converts the specified value to the replacement value.</li>
                <li>ALL - Converts all values in the field to the replacement value. </li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>You might use conditional replacement to update codes or other changed values, or to
            replace invalid values. </p>
        <note type="tip">To perform more complex replacements with expressions, use an Expression
            Evaluator.</note>
        <p>When you configure the processor, you specify the fields that you want to use and the
            replacement values when appropriate. When performing a conditional replacement, you also
            specify the operator type. You can list multiple fields for each type of value
            replacement. And you can configure error handling for when a field does not exist. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
