<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dtt_q5q_k5">
 <title>XML Parser</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>XML Parser
                    processor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>XML
                    Parser</indexterm></indexterm>The XML Parser parses a well-formed XML document
            embedded in a string field and passes the parsed data to an output field in the record. </p>
        <p>When you configure the XML Parser, you specify the field that contains the XML document
            and the target field for the parsed results. You can define a delimiter element to
            separate the document into multiple values. When no delimiter element is defined, XML
            Parser passes the entire document to the target field as a map.</p>
        <p>When defining the delimiter element, you can use an XML element or simplified XPath
            expression. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/XML-ph-MultRec2"
            /></p>
        <p>When an XML document has more than one value, you can return the first value, all values
            as a list, or generate a record for each value in the document. </p>
        <p>When generating a record, the processor includes all other incoming fields in the
            generated record. When generating multiple records because of multiple values in the
            parsed field, the processor includes the other incoming fields for each generated
            record. </p>
        <p>You can configure the processor to include the XPath to each parsed XML element and XML
            attribute in field attributes. This also places each namespace in an xmlns record header
            attribute. </p>
        <p>You can also configure the processor to include XML attributes and namespace declarations
            in the record as a field attributes. By default, it includes XML attributes and
            namespace declarations in the record as fields. <note><ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/warn_FieldRecHeaderAtts"
                /></note></p>
        <p>For more information about how XML Parser processes XML data, see <xref
                href="../Data_Formats/XMLDFormat.dita#concept_lty_42b_dy"/>.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
