<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_spk_wm5_51b">
 <title>Executing Pipeline Events in Data Preview</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>You can enable pipeline event execution in data preview to test event processing.</p>
        <p>When you enable data preview pipeline event generation, the event framework typically
            generates only the pipeline start event. If the pipeline start event is configured to
            pass the event to an executor or to another pipeline, the event is passed and triggers
            the additional processing associated with the executor or pipeline.</p>
        <p>Data preview only generates the pipeline stop event if the pipeline hits a stopping point
            within the data preview batch size. For example, say you have a pipeline where the
            origin is configured to pass a no-more-data event to a Pipeline Finisher executor, so
            that the pipeline stops when all available data is processed. If the origin contains
            only 15 records, you can set the preview batch size is 20 records and enable the
            pipeline event execution for data preview. When you start the data preview, it generates
            both the pipeline start and stop events. </p>
        <p>To enable generating pipeline event execution during data preview, use the Enable
            Pipeline Execution data preview property. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
