<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kvs_3hh_ht">
 <title>Amazon S3</title>
 <shortdesc>The Amazon S3 origin reads objects stored in Amazon S3. The object names must share a
        prefix pattern and should be fully written.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Amazon S3</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Amazon S3
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>With the Amazon S3 origin, you
            define the region, bucket, prefix pattern, optional common prefix, and read order. These
            properties determine the objects that the origin processes. You can optionally include
            Amazon S3 object metadata in the record as record header attributes. </p>
  <p>After processing an object or upon encountering errors, the origin can keep, archive, or delete
            the object. When archiving, the origin can copy or move the object. </p>
  <p>When the pipeline stops, the Amazon S3 origin notes where it stops reading. When the pipeline
            starts again, the origin continues processing from where it stopped by default. You can
            reset the origin to process all requested objects. </p>
        <p>You can configure the origin to decrypt data stored on Amazon S3 with server-side
            encryption and customer-provided encryption keys. You can optionally use a proxy to
            connect to Amazon S3.</p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"/>
 </conbody>
</concept>
