<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_inh_qjx_yw">
 <title>Object Metadata in Record Header Attributes</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Amazon S3 origin<indexterm>including
                metadata</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>record header attributes<indexterm>Amazon
                    S3 origin</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>including metadata<indexterm>Amazon
                    S3 origin</indexterm></indexterm>You can include Amazon S3 object  metadata in
            record header attributes. Include metadata when you want to use the information to help
            process records. For example, you might include metadata if you want to route records to
            different branches of a pipeline based on the last-modified timestamp.</p>
        <p>Use the <uicontrol>Include Metadata</uicontrol> property to include metadata in the
            record header attributes. When you include metadata in record header attributes, the
            Amazon S3 origin includes the following information:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>System-defined metadata</dt>
                    <dd>The origin includes the following system-defined metadata: <ul
                            id="ul_q53_31f_zw">
                            <li>Name - The object name. Bucket and prefix information is included as
                                follows:
                                <codeblock>&lt;bucket>/&lt;prefix>/&lt;object_name></codeblock></li>
                            <li>Cache-Control</li>
                            <li>Content-Disposition</li>
                            <li>Content-Encoding</li>
                            <li>Content-Length</li>
                            <li>Content-MD5</li>
                            <li>Content-Range</li>
                            <li>Content-Type</li>
                            <li>ETag</li>
                            <li>Expires</li>
                            <li>Last-Modified</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>For more information about Amazon S3 system-defined metadata, see the Amazon
                        S3 documentation.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>User-defined metadata</dt>
                    <dd>When available, the Amazon S3 origin also includes user-defined metadata in
                        record header attributes. </dd>
                    <dd>Amazon S3 requires user-defined metadata to be named with the following
                        prefix: <codeph>x-amz-meta-</codeph>. </dd>
                    <dd>When generating the record header attribute, the origin omits the prefix. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, if you have user-defined metadata called
                            "<codeph>x-amz-meta-extraInfo</codeph>", the origin names the record
                        header attribute as follows: <codeph>extraInfo</codeph>. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
