<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_elk_jr4_ht">
 <title>Folder and File Name Pattern</title>
 <shortdesc>The Amazon S3 origin processes files based on the user-defined location and pattern of
        the file name to be read. You can process files in a single folder or a set of folders. To
        define a set of folders, include a directory in the file name pattern and use wildcards to
        define a glob pattern.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p>Note that the origin does not process files recursively in unspecified subdirectories. It
            processes files in the specified folder or directories defined by a glob pattern. </p>
  <p>For example, to read all CSV files in the East Coast folder, you can use "East Coast" for the
            folder name and "*.csv" for the file name pattern. </p>
        <p>But say the East Coast folder includes a separate folder for each state, and you use the
            slash as the path delimiter. To read all CSV files in each state folder, you can leave
            the folder property empty, and then use the following for the file name pattern: "East
            Coast/*/*.csv".</p>
        <p>With this configuration, the Amazon S3 origin processes all *.csv files in the first
            level of East Coast subdirectories. The origin does not process any CSV files in the
            East Coast folder or in folders nested in the subdirectories.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
