<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_byn_5rf_bbb">
 <title>Storage Account and Container Prerequisite</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Azure IoT/Event Hub Consumer
                    origin<indexterm>prerequisites</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>prerequisites<indexterm>Azure
                    IoT/Event Hub Consumer origin</indexterm></indexterm>Before you use the Azure
            IoT/Event Hub Consumer origin, you need a Microsoft Azure storage account and at least
            one container. </p>
        <p>The origin stores offsets in a storage account container, so to ensure the integrity of
            offset information, you must use a different container for each pipeline that includes
            an Azure IoT/Event Hub Consumer origin.</p>
        <p>For example, say you use the Azure IoT/Event Hub Consumer as the origin for an IoT
            pipeline and a Transactions pipeline. To keep the offset data for these pipelines
            separate, you need to use two different storage account containers. They can be in the
            same storage account or in different storage accounts. When you configure the origins,
            you specify the storage account and container to use.</p>
        <p>To create a new container for the pipeline:<ol id="ol_rf4_wbg_bbb">
                <li>Log into the Microsoft Azure portal: <xref href="https://portal.azure.com"
                        format="html" scope="external">https://portal.azure.com</xref></li>
                <li>In the Navigation panel, click <uicontrol>Storage Accounts</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li>Select the storage account to use. <p>If you need to create a storage account,
                        click the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> icon. Enter a name for the storage
                        account, and enter or select a resource group name. You can use the defaults
                        for all other properties.</p></li>
                <li>In the storage account view, click <uicontrol>+ Container</uicontrol> to create
                    a container.</li>
                <li>Enter a container name, and click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.<p>
                        <note type="tip">Use a name that can be easily identified as the container
                            for the pipeline that you want to use it in.</note>
                    </p></li>
            </ol></p>
        <p>If these steps are no longer accurate, see the Microsoft Azure Event Hub
            documentation.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
