<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ypd_vgr_5q">
 <title>Batch Size and Wait Time</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>batch size and wait
                time<indexterm>origins</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Directory
                    origin<indexterm>batch size and wait time</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>File
                Tail origin<indexterm>batch size and wait
                time</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Kafka Consumer origin<indexterm>batch size
                    and wait time</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>batch size and
                    wait time</indexterm></indexterm>For origin stages, the batch size determines
            the maximum number of records sent through the pipeline at one time. The batch wait time
            determines the time that the origin waits for data before sending a batch. At the end of
            the wait time, it sends the batch regardless of how many records the batch contains. </p>
        <p>For example, a File Tail origin is configured for a batch size of 20 records and a batch
            wait time of 240 seconds. When data arrives quickly, File Tail fills a batch with 20
            records and sends it through the pipeline immediately, creating a new batch and sending
            it again as soon as it is full. As incoming data slows, a remaining batch contains a few
            records, gaining an extra record periodically. 240 seconds after creating the batch,
            File Tail sends the partially-full batch through the pipeline. It immediately creates a
            new batch and starts a new countdown.</p>
  <p>Configure the batch wait time based on your processing needs. You might reduce the batch wait
   time to ensure all data is processed within a specified time frame or to make regular contact
   with pipeline destinations. Use the default or increase the wait time if you prefer not to
   process partial or empty batches.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
