<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cg3_y3v_q1b">
 <title>Google BigQuery</title>
 <shortdesc>The Google BigQuery origin executes a query job and reads the result from Google
        BigQuery. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Google BigQuery
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Google
                    BigQuery</indexterm></indexterm>The origin submits the query that you define,
            and then Google BigQuery runs the query as an interactive query. When the query is
            complete, the origin reads the query results to generate records. The origin runs the
            query once and then the pipeline stops when it finishes reading all query results. If
            you start the pipeline again, the origin submits the query again.</p>
        <p>When you configure the origin, you define the query to run using valid BigQuery standard
            SQL or legacy SQL syntax. By default, BigQuery writes all query results to a temporary,
            cached results table. You can choose to disable retrieving cached results and force
            BigQuery to compute the query result.</p>
        <p>You also define the project and credentials provider to use to connect to Google
            BigQuery. The origin can retrieve credentials from the Google Application Default
            Credentials or from a Google Cloud service account credentials file.</p>
     <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"/>
 </conbody>
</concept>
