<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qcq_54n_jq">
 <title>Directory</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Directory
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Directory</indexterm></indexterm>The
            Directory origin reads data from files in a directory. The origin can use multiple
            threads to enable the parallel processing of files. </p>
        <p>The files to be processed must all share a file name pattern and be fully written. To
            read data from an active file that is still being written to, use the File Tail origin. </p>
        <p>When you configure the Directory origin, you define the directory to use, read order,
            file name pattern, file name pattern mode, and the first file to process. You can use
            glob patterns or regular expressions to define the file name pattern that you want to
            use. </p>
        <p>When using the last-modified timestamp read order, you can configure the origin to read
            from subdirectories. To use multiple threads for processing, specify the number of
            threads to use. </p>
        <p>You can also enable reading compressed files or files in a late arriving directory. After
            processing a file, Directory can keep, archive, or delete the file. </p>
        <p>When the pipeline stops, Directory notes where it stops reading. When the pipeline starts
            again, Directory continues processing from where it stopped by default. You can reset
            the origin to process all requested files. </p>
        <p>Directory includes record header attributes that enable you to use the origins of a
            record in pipeline processing. </p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"/>
 </conbody>
</concept>
