<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ltv_r3l_5q">
        <title>First File for Processing</title>
        <shortdesc>Configure a first file for processing when you want Directory to ignore one or
                more existing files in the directory.</shortdesc>
        <conbody>
                <p><indexterm>file processing<indexterm>for
                                Directory</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Directory
                                        origin<indexterm>file
                                processing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>first file to
                                        process<indexterm>Directory
                                origin</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>file name
                                        pattern<indexterm>for Directory</indexterm></indexterm>When
                        you define a first file to process, Directory starts processing with the
                        specified file and continues based on the read order and file name pattern.
                        When you do not specify a first file, Directory processes all files in the
                        directory that match the file name pattern. </p>
                <p>For example, say Directory reads files based on last-modified timestamp. To
                        ignore all files older than a particular file, use that file name as the
                        first file to process.</p>
                <p>Similarly, say you have Directory reading files based on lexicographically
                        ascending file names, and the file directory includes the following files:
                        web_001.log, web_002.log, web_003.log. </p>
                <p>If you configure web_002.log as the first file, Directory reads web_002.log and
                        continues to web_003.log. It skips web_001.log. </p>
        </conbody>
</concept>
