<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_zp2_fqs_5r">
 <title>Buffer Limit and Error Handling</title>
 <shortdesc>The Directory origin passes each record to a buffer. The size of the buffer determines
    the maximum size of the record that can be processed. Decrease the buffer limit when memory on
    the <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
    machine is limited. Increase the buffer limit to process larger records when memory is
    available. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Directory origin<indexterm>buffer limit and error
        handling</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>buffer limit and error handling<indexterm>for
          Directory</indexterm></indexterm>When a record is larger than the specified limit,
      Directory processes the source file based on the stage error handling:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Discard</dt>
          <dd>Directory discards the record and all remaining records in the file, and then
            continues processing the next file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Send to Error </dt>
          <dd>With a buffer limit error, Directory cannot send the record to the pipeline for error
            handling because it is unable to fully process the record. <p>Instead, Directory
              displays a message to Monitor mode indicating that a buffer overrun error occurred.
              The message includes the file and offset where the buffer overrun error occurred. The
              information displays in the pipeline history and displays as an alert when you monitor
              the pipeline. </p><p>If an error directory is configured for the stage, Directory
              moves the file to the error directory and continues processing the next file.
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Stop Pipeline</dt>
          <dd>Directory stops the pipeline and sends a message to Monitor mode indicating that a
            buffer overrun error occurred. The message includes the file and offset where the buffer
            overrun error occurred. The information displays as an alert and in the pipeline
            history. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  <p>
   <note>You can also check the <ph
     conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> log file for
    error details. </note>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
