<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tbz_ywl_3z">
 <title>Batch and Incremental Mode</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Elasticsearch origin<indexterm>batch
                mode</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>batch mode<indexterm>Elasticsearch
                    origin</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Elasticsearch
                    origin<indexterm>incremental mode</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>incremental
                    mode<indexterm>Elasticsearch origin</indexterm></indexterm>The Elasticsearch
            origin can read data in the following modes:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Batch mode</dt>
                <dd>In batch mode, the origin reads all data returned from the Elasticsearch query,
                    and then the pipeline stops. By default, the origin reads in batch mode. </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Incremental mode</dt>
                <dd>In incremental mode, the origin performs an initial read of all the data
                    returned from the Elasticsearch query, then the origin periodically runs the
                    query again to check for new data. In incremental mode, the pipeline runs
                    continuously so it can repeat the query at regular intervals. </dd>
                <dd>To use incremental mode, you define the amount of time that the origin waits
                    between queries, and you configure the offset field and initial offset value. </dd>
                <dd>The origin uses an offset field and initial offset value to determine where to
                    start reading data. By default, the offset field is defined as a field named
                        <systemoutput>timestamp</systemoutput>. You can define any Elasticsearch
                    field as the offset field, though you'll most likely want to use a date field.
                    The initial offset value is a value within the offset field where you want the
                    Elasticsearch origin to start reading.</dd>
                <dd>Include both the offset field and the offset value in the Elasticsearch query. </dd>
                <dd>After the initial read, the origin saves the last read offset value. When the
                    origin runs the next incremental query, the origin uses the last read offset
                    value to continue processing from where it stopped. </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
    </conbody>
</concept>
