<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_f1q_vpm_2z">
 <title>Elasticsearch </title>
 <shortdesc>The Elasticsearch origin is a multithreaded origin that reads data from an Elasticsearch
        cluster, including Elastic Cloud clusters (formerly Found clusters). The origin generates a
        record for each Elasticsearch document.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Elasticsearch
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Elasticsearch</indexterm></indexterm>When
            you configure the Elasticsearch origin, you configure the HTTP URI used to connect to
            the Elasticsearch cluster and specify whether security is enabled on the cluster. You
            configure the origin to run in batch or incremental mode. </p>
        <p>The origin uses the Elasticsearch scroll API to run a query that you define. A query can
            retrieve large numbers of documents from Elasticsearch. This allows the origin to run a
            single query and then read multiple batches of data from the scroll until no results are
            left. You configure a scroll timeout that defines the amount of time that the search
            context remains valid.</p>
        <p>When the pipeline stops, the Elasticsearch origin notes where it stops reading. When the
            pipeline starts again, the origin continues processing from where it stopped - as long
            as the scroll timeout has not been exceeded or the origin is not configured to delete
            the scroll when the pipeline stops. You can reset the origin to process all requested
            documents.</p>
        <p>When you configure the Elasticsearch origin, you specify the maximum number of slices to
            split the scroll into. The number of slices determines how many threads the origin uses
            to read the data.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
