<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_svq_fzp_wr">
 <title>File Processing Metadata</title>
 <shortdesc>File Tail logs information information about file processing, such as a file name and
  time it started or stopped processing a file. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>File Tail origin<indexterm>file processing
     metadata</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata<indexterm>from processing files (File
     Tail)</indexterm></indexterm>File Tail passes the information to the pipeline through the
   metadata node. To retain this information for review, connect the metadata node to the pipeline
   or a standard destination. If you do not require this information, connect the metadata node to
   the Trash destination.</p>
  <p>The file processing metadata includes the following fields:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>fileName</dt>
     <dd>Name of the file. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>inode</dt>
     <dd>Index node information for the file. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>time</dt>
     <dd>Time that the event occurred.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>event</dt>
     <dd>Processing event. START indicates that File Tail started processing the specified file. END
      indicates that File Tail completed processing the contents of the file. </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
  <note>Note that file names can change when the server archives data and renames archived files.
   The inode most reliably identifies a file. </note>
 </conbody>
</concept>
