<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_e53_gr4_1s">
 <title>File Tail Output</title>
  <shortdesc>File Tail provides data and related metadata through separate output streams. If you
    don't need to use the related metadata, you can connect the output stream to a Trash
    destination.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>File Tail origin<indexterm>output</indexterm></indexterm>The origin passes
      information thorugh the following output locations:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Data</dt>
          <dd>Passes data read from the origin.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Metadata</dt>
          <dd>Passes information generated about file processing. To retain this information for
            review, connect the metadata output location any other destination or route the data as
            necessary. If you do not require this information, connect the metadata output location
            to the Trash destination. </dd>
          <dd>File processing metadata includes the following fields:<ul id="ul_hnd_1s4_1s">
              <li>fileName - Name of the file.</li>
              <li>inode - Index information for the file.</li>
              <li>time - Time that the event occurred.</li>
              <li>event - Processing event. START indicates that File Tail started processing the
                specified file. END indicates that File Tail completed processing the contents of
                the file. </li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>
            <note>Inode most reliably identifies a file when a server renames archived files.
            </note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
