<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_svq_fzp_wr">
 <title>File Processing Metadata</title>
 <shortdesc>File Tail logs information about file processing, such as a file name and time it
  started processing a file. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>File Tail origin<indexterm>file processing
     metadata</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata<indexterm>from processing files (File
     Tail)</indexterm></indexterm>File Tail passes file processing information to the pipeline
   through the metadata node. If you do not require this information, connect the metadata node to
   the Trash destination. To retain this information for review, connect the metadata node any other
   destination type or route the data as necessary.</p>
  <p>The file processing metadata includes the following fields:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>fileName</dt>
     <dd>Name of the file. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>inode</dt>
     <dd>Index node information for the file. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>time</dt>
     <dd>Time that the event occurred.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>event</dt>
     <dd>Processing event. START indicates that File Tail started processing the specified file. END
      indicates that File Tail completed processing the contents of the file. </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
  <note>File names can change when a server renames archived files. In this case, the inode most
   reliably identifies a file. </note>
 </conbody>
</concept>
