<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pm4_b3q_5r">
 <title>Data Formats</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>data formats<indexterm>File Tail</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>File Tail
     origin<indexterm>data formats</indexterm></indexterm>The File Tail origin processes lines of
   data. The origin handles data differently based on the type of data being processed. File Tail
   can process the following types of data:</p>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>JSON</dt>
    <dd>Generates a record for each JSON object. Each JSON object must be written to file as a
     single line.</dd>
    <dd>When an object exceeds the maximum line length defined for the origin, File Tail processes
     the object based on the error handling configured for the origin.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Log</dt>
    <dd>Generates a record for every log line. </dd>
    <dd>When a line exceeds the maximum line length defined for the origin, File Tail truncates the
     line.</dd>
    <dd>You can include the processed log line as a field in the record. If the log line is
     truncated, and you request the log line in the record, File Tail includes the truncated
     line.</dd>
    <dd>You can define the log format or type to be read.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Text</dt>
    <dd>Generates a record for each line in the file. </dd>
    <dd>When a line exceeds the maximum line length defined for the origin, File Tail truncates the
     line. The origin adds a boolean field named Truncated to indicate if the line was
     truncated.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
