<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_n1y_qyp_5q">
 <title>File Tail</title>
 <shortdesc>The File Tail origin reads lines of data as they are written to an active file after
        reading related archived files in the same directory. File Tail generates a record for each
        line of data.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>File Tail
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>File
                    Tail</indexterm></indexterm>When you configure File Tail, you define the full
            path to the active file, the naming convention for archived files, and the first
            archived file to process. These properties determine the set of files that are read and
            the order of processing.</p>
        <p>For example, a File Tail is configured to tail a log called server.log, starting with
            server.log.1, expecting archived files named in reverse counter order. When the pipeline
            runs, it starts reading lines from the beginning of server.log.1, ignoring older files.
            When it reaches the end of server.log.1, it continues processing data in server.log.
            When it completes reading existing data in server.log, it tails incoming data for the
            file.</p>
        <p>When you stop a pipeline, File Tail notes where it stops reading. When you restart the
            pipeline, File Tail continues processing from the line where it left off, even if it has
            been archived to a different file. </p>
        <p>You can reset the origin for File Tail. When you reset the origin, the File Tail treats
            all properties as if you are starting the pipeline for the first time - processing all
            requested files before continuing to the active file. </p>
        <p>File Tail includes record header attributes that enable you to use the origins of a
            record in pipeline processing. </p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"/>
        <note>If you use logrotate with the copytruncate option, use the Directory origin to process
            the rolled or archived files. File Tail does not support copytruncate.</note>
    </conbody>
</concept>
