<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cyz_kr4_1s">
 <title>Multiple Paths and File Sets</title>
    <shortdesc>File Tail can read sets of files in different directories. When File Tail processes
        different sets of files, it merges all data in the pipeline. If you need to separate the
        records later, you can use the tag record attribute.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>File Tail origin<indexterm>multiple directories and file
                sets</indexterm></indexterm>To define a set of files to be processed, you specify
            the full path to an active file and related properties. You can define additional file
            sets by configuring a set of properties for each set of files.</p>
        <p>You can also use wildcards to define glob patterns in the path definition to represent
            multiple paths and active files. When you define glob patterns, note the following
                restrictions:<ul id="ul_cgm_4vx_mv">
                <li>The part of the path before wildcards must exist when the pipeline starts unless
                    you enable the origin to read from late directories. Use the Allow Late
                    Directories property to allow reading from late directories.<p>For example,
                        without late directories enabled, the /server/ part of the following
                        directory must exist when you start the pipeline.
                        <codeblock>/server/*/activity.log</codeblock></p></li>
                <li>While you can use multiple wildcards in a path, do not use multiple wildcards in
                    a row.<p>For example, this path is
                        valid:<codeblock>/user/*/logs/*/log-*.json</codeblock></p><p>But the
                        following path does not pass validation because it includes two adjacent
                        wildcards:</p><codeblock>/user/*/logs/*/*/log-*.json</codeblock></li>
            </ul></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
