<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_iyd_wql_nbb">
 <title>Google Cloud Storage</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Google Cloud
                Storage</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Google Cloud Storage
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The Google Cloud Storage origin
            reads objects stored in Google Cloud Storage. The objects must be fully written and
            reside in a single bucket. The object names must share a prefix pattern.</p>
        <p>With the Google Cloud Storage origin, you define the bucket, prefix pattern, and optional
            common prefix. These properties determine the objects that the origin processes. </p>
        <p>You also define the project and credentials provider to use to connect to Google Cloud
            Storage. The origin can retrieve credentials from the Google Application Default
            Credentials or from a Google Cloud service account credentials file. </p>
        <p>After processing an object or upon encountering errors, the origin can keep, archive, or
            delete the object. When archiving, the origin can copy or move the object. </p>
        <p>When the pipeline stops, the Google Cloud Storage origin notes where it stops reading.
            When the pipeline starts again, the origin continues processing from where it stopped by
            default. You can reset the origin to process all requested objects. </p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"/>
 </conbody>
</concept>
