<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mnv_s5r_35">
 <title>Data Formats</title>
 <shortdesc>The HTTP Client origin processes data differently based on the data format. The origin
        processes the following types of data: </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Text</dt>
                    <dd>Generates a record for each line of text. The origin uses the specified HTTP
                        stream delimiter to determine the beginning and end of each line. </dd>
                    <dd>When a line exceeds the maximum line length defined for the origin, the
                        origin truncates the line. The origin adds a boolean field named Truncated
                        to indicate if the line was truncated. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>JSON</dt>
                    <dd>Generates a record for each JSON object. The origin uses the specified HTTP
                        stream delimiter to determine the beginning and end of each JSON object. </dd>
                    <dd>When an object exceeds the maximum object length defined for the origin, the
                        origin processes the object based on the error handling configured for the
                        stage. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>XML</dt>
                    <dd>Generates a record for XML based on the specified delimiter element. When
                        processing XML data, the origin uses the HTTP stream delimiter to define
                        chunks of XML and then uses the delimiter element to separate the data into
                        records. </dd>
                    <dd>When a record exceeds the user-defined maximum record length, the origin
                        skips the record and continues processing with the next record. It sends the
                        skipped record to the pipeline for error handling.  </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
