<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wk4_bjz_5r">
 <title>HTTP Client</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>HTTP Client
          origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>HTTP
          Client</indexterm></indexterm>The HTTP Client origin reads data from an HTTP resource
      URL.</p>
    <p>When you configure HTTP Client, you specify the resource URL, optional headers, and the
      method to use. For some methods, you can specify the request body and default content type. </p>
    <p>You can configure the actions to take based on the response status and configure pagination
      properties to enable processing large volumes of data from paginated APIs. You can also enable
      the origin to read compressed and archived files. </p>
    <p>The origin provides response header fields as record header attributes so you can use the
      information in the pipeline when needed.</p>
    <p>The origin also provides several different authentication types to access data. You can enter
      credentials in the origin or you can secure the credentials in runtime resource files and
      reference the files in the origin. You can also configure the origin to use the OAuth 2
      protocol to connect to an HTTP service.</p>
    <p>You can optionally use an HTTP proxy and configure SSL/TLS properties.<note
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Tip-CompareHTTPOrigins"
      /></p>
 </conbody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../Pipeline_Configuration/RuntimeResources.dita#concept_bs4_5nm_2s"/>
  </related-links>
</concept>
