<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_s2p_5hb_4y">
 <title>HTTP Server</title>
    <shortdesc>The HTTP Server origin is a multithreaded origin that listens on an HTTP endpoint and
        processes the contents of all authorized HTTP POST requests. Use the HTTP Server origin to
        read high volumes of HTTP POST requests using multiple threads. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>HTTP Server
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>HTTP
                    Server</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>multithreaded origins<indexterm>HTTP
                    Server</indexterm></indexterm>The HTTP Server origin can read requests
            containing messages with no compression or with the Gzip or Snappy compression format. </p>
        <p>The HTTP Server origin can use multiple threads to enable parallel processing of data
            from multiple HTTP clients. Before you configure the origin, perform additional steps to
            configure the HTTP clients. </p>
        <p>When you configure the HTTP Server origin, you specify the maximum number of concurrent
            requests to determine how many threads to use. You define the listening port,
            application ID, and the maximum message size. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/TLS-overview-ph"
            /></p>
        <p>
            <note type="tip"><ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> provides several HTTP origins to address different needs. For a quick comparison
                chart to help you choose the right one, see <xref
                    href="Origins-HTTPComparison.dita#concept_rsz_cnw_qy"/>.</note>
        </p>
        <p> </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
