<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cbn_pbw_zw">
 <title>SQL Query for Incremental Mode</title>
 <shortdesc>When you define the SQL query for incremental mode, JDBC Query Consumer requires a WHERE
        and ORDER BY clause in the query. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Use the following guidelines when you define the WHERE and ORDER BY clauses in the query:</p>
     <dl>
         <dlentry>
             <dt>In the WHERE clause, include the offset column and the offset value</dt>
             <dd>The origin uses an offset column and value to determine the data that is returned.
                 Include both in the WHERE clause of the query. </dd>
         </dlentry>
         <dlentry>
             <dt>Use the OFFSET constant to represent the offset value</dt>
             <dd>In the WHERE clause, use ${OFFSET} to represent the offset value. </dd>
             <dd>For example, when you start a pipeline, the following query returns all data from the
                 table where the data in the offset column is greater than the initial offset
                 value:<codeblock>SELECT * FROM &lt;tablename> WHERE &lt;offset column> > ${OFFSET}</codeblock><note
                     type="tip">When the offset values are strings, enclose ${OFFSET} in single quotation
                     marks.</note></dd>
         </dlentry>
         <dlentry>
             <dt>In the ORDER BY clause, include the offset column as the first column</dt>
             <dd>To avoid returning duplicate data, use the offset column as the first column in the
                 ORDER BY clause.</dd>
             <dd>
                 <note>Using column that is not a primary key or indexed column in the ORDER BY clause
                     can slow performance.</note>
             </dd>
         </dlentry>
     </dl>
        <p>For example, the following query for incremental mode returns data from an Invoice table
            where the ID column is the offset column. The query returns all data where the ID is
            greater than the offset and orders the data by the
            ID:<codeblock> SELECT * FROM invoice WHERE id > ${OFFSET} ORDER BY id</codeblock></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
