<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qhf_hjr_bs">
 <title>JDBC Query Consumer</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>JDBC Query Consumer</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>JDBC
                Query Consumer origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The JDBC Query
            Consumer origin reads database data using a user-defined SQL query through a JDBC
            connection. The origin returns data as a map with column names and field values.</p>
        <p>When you configure the origin, you define the SQL query that the origin uses to read data
            from a single table or from a join of tables.</p>
        <note>To read from multiple tables in the same database, use the JDBC Multitable Consumer
            origin. The origin generates SQL queries based on the table configurations that you
            define. You might want to use the <xref
                href="MultiTableJDBCConsumer.dita#concept_zp3_wnw_4y"/> origin for database
            replication.</note>
        <p>When you configure JDBC Query Consumer, you specify connection information, query
            interval, and custom JDBC configuration properties to determine how the origin connects
            to the database. You configure the query mode and SQL query to define the data returned
            by the database. You can also call stored procedures from the SQL query.</p>
        <p>You can configure the JDBC Query Consumer to perform change data capture for databases
            that store the information in a table. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-unsupportedType"
            /></p>
        <p>You can also configure custom properties that your driver requires. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-JDBC-legacyInfo"
            /></p>
        <p>By default, the origin creates JDBC header attributes to provide information about source
            data in record headers. </p>
        <p>
            <note type="note">The ability to process Microsoft SQL Server CDC data is deprecated in
                this origin and will be removed in a future release. To process data from Microsoft
                SQL Server CDC tables, use the <xref href="SQLServerCDC.dita#concept_ut3_ywc_v1b"
                    >SQL Server CDC Client origin</xref>. To process data from Microsoft SQL Server
                change tracking tables, use the <xref
                    href="SQLServerChange.dita#concept_ewq_b2s_r1b">SQL Server Change Tracking
                    origin</xref>.</note>
        </p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"/>
    </conbody>
</concept>
