<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tyd_gbf_5y">
 <title>CDC for Microsoft SQL Server</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>
            <note type="important">This functionality is deprecated and will be removed in a future
                release. To process data from Microsoft SQL Server CDC tables, use the <xref
                    href="SQLServerCDC.dita#concept_ut3_ywc_v1b">SQL Server CDC Client
                origin</xref>. To process data from Microsoft SQL Server change tracking tables, use
                the <xref href="SQLServerChange.dita#concept_ewq_b2s_r1b">SQL Server Change Tracking
                    origin</xref>.</note>
        </p>
        <p>You can use the JDBC Query Consumer to process change capture data from Microsoft SQL
            Server. </p>
        <p>To process Microsoft SQL Server changed capture data, perform the following tasks: <ol
                id="ol_vkk_1nf_5y">
                <li>In the JDBC Query Consumer origin, on the <wintitle>JDBC</wintitle> tab, make
                    sure <uicontrol>Incremental Mode</uicontrol> is enabled. </li>
                <li>Configure the <uicontrol>Offset Column</uicontrol> property to use
                        <uicontrol>__$start_lsn</uicontrol>. <p>Microsoft SQL Server uses
                        _$start_lsn as the offset column in change data capture tables. </p></li>
                <li>Configure the <uicontrol>Initial Offset</uicontrol> property. <p>This determines
                        where the origin starts the read when you start the pipeline. To read all
                        available data, set it to 0. </p></li>
                <li>Configure the <uicontrol>SQL Query</uicontrol> property: <p>
                        <ul id="ul_ew5_3vf_5y">
                            <li>In the SELECT statement, use the CDC table name. </li>
                            <li>In the WHERE clause, use __$start_lsn as the offset column, and
                                since __$start_lsn stores the offset in binary format, add a command
                                to convert the integer offset to Binary(10).</li>
                            <li>In the ORDER BY clause, use __$start_lsn as the offset column and
                                optionally specify reading in ascending or descending order. By
                                default, the origin reads in ascending order. </li>
                        </ul>
                    </p><p>The following query summarizes these points:
                        <codeblock>SELECT * from &lt;CDC table name>
WHERE __$start_lsn > CAST(0x${OFFSET} as binary(10))
ORDER BY __$start_lsn &lt;ASC | DESC></codeblock></p></li>
                <li>If you want to group row updates from the same transaction, configure the
                    properties on the <uicontrol>Change Data Capture</uicontrol> tab: <ul
                        id="ul_aml_25f_5y">
                        <li>For the <uicontrol>Transaction ID Column Name</uicontrol> use
                                <uicontrol>__$start_lsn</uicontrol>. The __$start_lsn column
                            includes transaction information in the offset. </li>
                        <li>Set the <uicontrol>Max Transaction Size</uicontrol>. This property
                            overrides the <ph
                                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                            /> maximum batch size. For more information about both of these
                            properties, see <xref
                                href="JDBCConsumer-CDCGroupTransactions.dita#concept_e1j_jwv_ht"
                            />.</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ol></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
