<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_uj4_mxy_bs">
  <title>SQL Query</title>
  <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>JDBC Consumer origin<indexterm>SQL query</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>SQL
          query<indexterm>JDBC Cponsumer</indexterm></indexterm>The SQL query defines the data
      returned from the database. When you define the SQL query, use the following guidelines:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>In the WHERE clause, include the offset column and the offset value</dt>
          <dd>JDBC Consumer uses an offset column and value to determine the data that is returned.
            Include both in the WHERE clause of the query. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Use ${OFFSET} to represent the offset value</dt>
          <dd>In the WHERE clause, use ${OFFSET} to represent the offset value. </dd>
          <dd>For example, when you start a pipeline, the following query returns all data from the
            table where the data in the offset column is greater than the initial offset value.
              <codeblock>SELECT * FROM &lt;tablename> WHERE &lt;offset column> > ${OFFSET}</codeblock><note
              type="tip">When the offset values are strings, enclose ${OFFSET} in single quotation
              marks.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>In the ORDER BY clause, include the offset column as the first column.</dt>
          <dd>To avoid returning duplicate data, use the offset column as the first column in the
            ORDER BY clause.</dd>
          <dd>
            <note>Using column that is not a primary key or indexed column in the ORDER BY clause
              can slow performance.</note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
