<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ccs_fn4_x1b">
 <title>Kafka Multitopic Consumer</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Kafka Multitopic Consumer</indexterm><indexterm>Kafka Multitopic
                        Consumer<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>The Kafka
            Multitopic Consumer origin reads data from multiple topics in an Apache Kafka cluster.
            The origin can use multiple threads to enable parallel processing of data. When
            preferred, you can use the <xref href="KConsumer.dita#concept_msz_wnr_5q">Kafka
                Consumer</xref> to read from a single topic using a single thread. </p>
        <p>When you configure a Kafka Multitopic Consumer, you configure the consumer group name and
            the brokers to use. You also specify the topics to process and the number of threads to
            use. In Kafka, make sure that the <xref
                href="KafkaMultiConsumer-MultithreadProcessing.dita#concept_ifs_wtm_3z">partition
                assignment strategy</xref> is configured appropriately. </p>
        <p>You can configure the origin to produce a single record when a message includes multiple
            objects. And you can add additional Kafka configuration properties as needed, including
            Kafka security features.</p>
        <p>When processing Avro data, you can configure the Kafka Multitopic Consumer to work with
            the Confluent Schema Registry. The Confluent Schema Registry is a distributed storage
            layer for Avro schemas which uses Kafka as its underlying storage mechanism.</p>
        <p>Kafka Multitopic Consumer includes record header attributes that enable you to use
            information about the record in pipeline processing. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
