<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tr1_spd_sr">
 <title>Log Formats</title>
 <shortdesc>When you use an origin to read log data, you define the format of the log files to be
  read. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><draft-comment author="Loretta">This topic is used for Amazon S3, Directory, File Tail, JMS
    Consumer, Kafka Consumer, Kafka Multitopic Consumer. Hadoop FS origin has a slightly different
    version. </draft-comment>You can read log files that use the following log formats:</p>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Common Log Format</dt>
     <dd>A standardized text format used by web servers to generate log files. Also known as the
      NCSA (National Center for Supercomputing Applications) Common Log format.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Combined Log Format</dt>
     <dd>A standardized text format based on the common log format that includes additional
      information. Also known as the Apache/NCSA Combined Log Format.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Apache Error Log Format</dt>
     <dd>The standardized error log format generated by the Apache HTTP Server 2.2.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Apache Access Log Custom Format</dt>
     <dd>A customizable access log generated by the Apache HTTP Server 2.2. Use the Apache HTTP
      Server version 2.2 syntax to define the format of the log file. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Regular Expression</dt>
     <dd>Use a regular expression to define the structure of log data, and then assign the field or
      fields represented by each group.  </dd>
     <dd>Use any valid regular expression.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Grok Pattern</dt>
     <dd>Use a grok pattern to define the structure of log data. You can use the grok patterns
      supported by <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>. You can
      also define a custom grok pattern and then use it as part of the log format. </dd>
     <dd>For more information about supported grok patterns, see <xref
       href="../Apx-GrokPatterns/GrokPatterns.dita#concept_vdk_xjb_wr"/>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>log4j</dt>
     <dd>A customizable format generated by the Apache Log4j 1.2 logging utility. You can use the
      default format or specify a custom format. Use the Apache Log4j version 1.2 syntax to define
      the format of the log file.</dd>
     <dd>You can also specify the action to take when the origin encounters an error when parsing a
      line. You can skip the line and optionally log an error. If you know that the unparsable
      information is part of a stack trace, you can have the origin include the unparsable
      information as a stack trace to the previous parsable line.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
