<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ifs_wtm_3z">
 <title>Multithreaded Processing</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>MapR Multitopic Streams Consumer origin<indexterm>multithreaded
                    processing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Number of Threads<indexterm>MapR
                    Multitopic Streams Consumer origin</indexterm></indexterm>The MapR Multitopic
            Streams Consumer origin performs parallel processing and enables the creation of a
            multithreaded pipeline. The MapR Multitopic Streams Consumer origin uses multiple
            concurrent threads based on the Number of Threads property. MapR Streams distributes
            partitions equally among all the consumers in a group.</p>
        <p>When performing multithreaded processing, the MapR Multitopic Streams Consumer origin
            checks the list of topics to process and creates the specified number of threads. Each
            thread connects to MapR Streams and creates a batch of data from a partition assigned by
            MapR Streams. Then, it passes the batch to an available pipeline runner. </p>
        <p><ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-MultiThread-PipeRunnerDef"/>
            <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-MultiThread-def2"
            /></p>
        <p><ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-MultiThread-batchorder"
            /></p>
        <p>For example, say you set the Number of Threads property to 5. When you start the
            pipeline, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-createsthreads"
            /> The threads are assigned to different partitions as defined by MapR Streams. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-Passesbatch"
            /></p>
        <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/HTTPServer-process-p"/>
        <p>For more information about multithreaded pipelines, see <xref
                href="../Multithreaded_Pipelines/MultithreadedPipelines_Overview.dita#concept_zpp_2xc_py"
            />. For more information about the MapR Streams, see the MapR Streams documentation.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
