<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qwj_5vm_pbb">
 <title>MapR DB CDC</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>MapR DB CDC
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>MapR
                    DB CDC</indexterm></indexterm>The MapR DB CDC origin reads changed data from
            MapR DB that has been written to MapR Streams. The origin can use multiple threads to
            enable parallel processing of data. </p>
        <p>You might use this origin to perform database replication. You can use a separate
            pipeline with the MapR DB JSON origin to read existing data. Then start a pipeline with
            the MapR DB CDC origin to process subsequent changes.</p>
        <p>When you configure a MapR DB CDC origin, you configure the MapR Streams consumer group
            name and topics to process, and the number of threads to use. You can specify additional
            MapR Streams and supported Kafka configuration properties as needed.</p>
        <p>The MapR DB CDC origin includes the CRUD operation type in a record header attribute so
            generated records can be easily processed by CRUD-enabled destinations. For an overview
            of <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            changed data processing and a list of CRUD-enabled destinations, see <xref
                href="../Pipeline_Design/CDC-Overview.dita#concept_apw_l2c_ty"/>.</p>
        <p>
            <note type="tip"><ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> provides several MapR origins to address different needs. For a quick comparison
                chart to help you choose the right one, see <xref
                    href="Origins-MapRComparison.dita#concept_ip2_szg_qbb">Comparing MapR
                    Origins</xref>.</note>
        </p>
        <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/MapRPrereq"/>
 </conbody>
</concept>
