<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xpd_fn5_sy">
 <title>Handling the _id Field</title>
 <shortdesc>When the origin converts a JSON document into a record, it includes the _id field of the
        JSON document in the record. If needed, you can use the Field Remover processor in the
        pipeline to remove the _id field.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>MapR DB JSON origin<indexterm>handling the _id
                field</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>_id field<index-sort-as>id
                    field</index-sort-as><indexterm>MapR DB JSON origin</indexterm></indexterm>The
            _id field in a JSON document can contain string or binary data. The MapR DB JSON origin
            can read from JSON tables that include _id fields with one of the valid types. For
            example, the origin can read from a JSON table when all documents in the table have a
            string _id field or when all documents have a binary _id field. The origin cannot read
            from a table with a combination of types for the _id field.</p>
        <p>When a JSON document contains a string _id field, the origin creates the _id field in the
            record as a String.</p>
        <p>When a JSON document contains a binary _id field, the origin converts the data to String
            and then includes the field in the record.</p>
        <p>
            <note>A binary _id field in a JSON document must contain numeric data for the origin to
                process the data correctly. In addition, binary _id fields must have the same width
                for all rows or JSON documents in the table. </note>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
