<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ywh_k15_3y">
 <title>MapR DB JSON</title>
 <shortdesc>The MapR DB JSON origin reads JSON documents from MapR DB JSON tables. The origin
        converts each document into a record.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>MapR DB JSON
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>MapR
                    DB JSON</indexterm></indexterm>MapR DB JSON tables are tables in which every row
            is a JSON document. Each JSON document has a unique identifier stored in the _id field,
            which in turn is used as the row key to uniquely identify each row in the table.</p>
        <p>When you configure the origin, you define the JSON table to read from. The origin uses
            the _id field in each JSON document as the offset field. You can optionally define the
            initial offset value to start reading from. </p>
        <p>When the pipeline stops, the MapR DB JSON origin notes where it stops reading. When the
            pipeline starts again, the origin continues processing from where it stopped by default.
            You can reset the origin to process all available data.</p>
        <p>
            <note type="tip"><ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> provides several MapR origins to address different needs. For a quick comparison
                chart to help you choose the right one, see <xref
                    href="Origins-MapRComparison.dita#concept_ip2_szg_qbb">Comparing MapR
                    Origins</xref>.</note>
        </p>
        <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/MapRPrereq"/>
    </conbody>
</concept>
