<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hvd_hww_lbb">
 <title>MapR Multitopic Streams Consumer</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>MapR Multitopic Streams Consumer</indexterm><indexterm>MapR
                    Multitopic Streams
                Consumer<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>The MapR Multitopic
            Streams Consumer origin reads data from multiple topics in a MapR Streams cluster. The
            origin can use multiple threads to enable parallel processing of data. </p>
        <p>When you configure a MapR Multitopic Streams Consumer, you configure the consumer group
            name, the topics to process, and the number of threads to use.</p>
        <p>You can configure the origin to produce a single record when a message includes multiple
            objects. And you can add additional MapR Streams and supported Kafka configuration
            properties as needed.</p>
        <p>When processing Avro data, you can configure the MapR Multitopic Streams Consumer to work
            with the Confluent Schema Registry. The Confluent Schema Registry is a distributed
            storage layer for Avro schemas which uses MapR Streams as its underlying storage
            mechanism.</p>
        <p>MapR Multitopic Streams Consumer includes record header attributes that enable you to use
            information about the record in pipeline processing. </p>
        <p>
            <note type="tip"><ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> provides several MapR origins to address different needs. For a quick comparison
                chart to help you choose the right one, see <xref
                    href="Origins-MapRComparison.dita#concept_ip2_szg_qbb">Comparing MapR
                    Origins</xref>.</note>
        </p>
        <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/MapRPrereq"/>
    </conbody>
</concept>
