<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_svg_2zl_d1b">
 <title>Maximum Record Size</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>maximum record size</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>maximum
                record size properties<indexterm>in origins</indexterm></indexterm>Most data formats
            have a property that limits the maximum size of the record that an origin can parse. For
            example, the delimited data format has a Max Record Length property, the JSON data
            format has Max Object Length, and the text data format has Max Line Length.</p>
        <p>When the origin processes data that is larger than the specified length, the behavior
            differs based on the origin and the data format. For example, with some data formats,
            oversized records are handled based on the record error handling configured for the
            origin. While in other data formats, the origin might truncate the data. For details on
            how an origin handles size overruns for each data format, see the "Data Formats" section
            of the origin documentation.</p>
        <p>When available, the maximum record size properties are limited by the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            parser buffer size, which is <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-DefaultMaxRecordSize"
            /> by default. So, when raising the maximum record size property in the origin does not
            change the origin's behavior, you might need to increase the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            > </ph> parser buffer size by configuring the parser.limit property in the <xref
                href="../Configuration/ConfiguringDataCollector.dita#task_lxk_kjw_1r" product="SDC"
                    ><ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> configuration file.</xref><ph product="DPM">Data Collector configuration file.
                For more information, see <xref
                    href="https://streamsets.com/documentation/datacollector/latest/help/#Configuration/DCConfig.html%23task_lxk_kjw_1r"
                    format="html" scope="external">Configuring Data Collector</xref> in the Data
                Collector documentation.</ph></p>
        <p>Note that most of the maximum record size properties are specified in characters, while
            the <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            /> limit is defined in bytes. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
