<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mjn_yqw_4y">
 <title>MongoDB Oplog</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>MongoDB Oplog
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>MongoDB
                    Oplog</indexterm></indexterm>The MongoDB Oplog origin reads entries from MongoDB
            Oplog.</p>
        <p>MongoDB stores information about changes to the database in a local capped collection
            called an Oplog. The Oplog contains information about changes in data as well as changes
            in the database. The MongoDB Oplog origin can read any operation written to the
            Oplog.</p>
        <p>Use the MongoDB Oplog origin to capture changes in data or the database. To process
            MongoDB data written to a standard capped or uncapped collection, use the <xref
                href="MongoDB.dita#concept_bk4_2rs_ns">MongoDB origin</xref>.</p>
        <p>The MongoDB Oplog origin <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-CDCoverview"
            /></p>
        <p>When you configure the MongoDB Oplog origin, you configure connection information, such
            as the connection string and MongoDB credentials. You also define an optional timestamp
            and ordinal to specify where to start the read, the operations that you want to process,
            and the read preference.</p>
        <p>You can optionally configure advanced options that determine how the origin connects to
            MongoDB, including enabling SSL/TLS. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
