<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_nff_2hx_4y">
 <title>Initial Table Order Strategy</title>
 <shortdesc>You can define the initial order that the origin uses to read the tables.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>JDBC Multitable Consumer origin<indexterm>initial table order
                strategy</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>initial table order
                    strategy<indexterm>JDBC Multitable Consumer origin</indexterm></indexterm>Define
            one of the following initial table order strategies: </p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>None</dt>
                <dd>Reads the tables in the order that they are listed in the database.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Alphabetical</dt>
                <dd>Reads the tables in alphabetical order.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Referential Constraints</dt>
                <dd>Reads the tables based on the dependencies between the tables. The origin reads
                    the parent table first, and then reads the child tables that refer to the parent
                    table with a foreign key.</dd>
                <dd>You cannot use the referential constraints order when the tables to be read have
                    a cyclic dependency. When the origin detects a cyclic dependency, the pipeline
                    fails to validate with the following
                    error:<codeblock>JDBC_68 Tables referring to each other in a cyclic fashion.</codeblock></dd>
                <dd>Note that the referential constraints order can cause pipeline validation or
                    initialization to slow down because the origin has to sort the tables before
                    reading them.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>The origin uses this table order only for the initial reading of the tables. When threads
            switch back to previously read tables, they read from the next available table,
            regardless of the defined order.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
