<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tz5_fw5_gz">
 <title>Multithreaded Table Processing</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>JDBC Multitable Consumer origin<indexterm>multithreaded processing for
                    tables</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Number of Threads<indexterm>JDBC
                    Multitable Consumer</indexterm></indexterm>When performing multithreaded table
            processing, the JDBC Multitable Consumer origin retrieves the list of tables defined in
            the table configuration when you start the pipeline. The origin then uses multiple
            concurrent threads based on the Number of Threads property. Each thread reads data from
            a single table, and each table can have a maximum of one thread read from it at a
                time.<note>The Maximum Pool Size property on the Advanced tab defines the maximum
                number of connections the origin can make to the database. It must be equal to or
                greater than the value defined for the Number of Threads property.</note></p>
        <p>As the pipeline runs, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-MultiThread-def1_JDBCModified"
            /></p>
        <p><ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-MultiThread-def2"
            /></p>
        <p><ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-MultiThread-batchorder"
            /></p>
        <p>The order of batch processing depends on many factors. For more information, see <xref
                href="MultiTableJDBCConsumer-ProcessingQueue.dita#concept_czt_ql2_r1b"/>.</p>
        <p>For more information about multithreaded pipelines, see <xref
                href="../Multithreaded_Pipelines/MultithreadedPipelines_Overview.dita#concept_zpp_2xc_py"
            />.</p>
        <section id="section_fvq_bpw_hz">
            <title>Example</title>
            <p>Say you are reading from ten tables. You set the Number of Threads property to 5 and
                the Maximum Pool Size property to 6. When you start the pipeline, the origin
                retrieves the list of tables. The origin then creates five threads to read from the
                first five tables, and by default <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> creates a matching number of pipeline runners. Upon receiving data, a thread
                passes a batch to each of the pipeline runners for processing.</p>
            <p
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/HTTPServer-process-p"/>
        </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
