<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lgb_nvl_dy">
 <title>Tables to Include or Ignore</title>
 <shortdesc>The binary log file captures all changes made to the MySQL database. If you want the
        MySQL Binary Log origin to capture changes from a subset of tables, you can configure the
        origin to include changes from specific tables or to ignore changes from specific
        tables.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>MySQL Binary Log origin<indexterm>include
                tables</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>MySQL Binary Log origin<indexterm>ignore
                    tables</indexterm></indexterm>On the Advanced tab, you configure the tables to
            include or ignore. Enter a list of database and table names separated by commas. You can
            use the percent sign (%) as a wildcard to match any number of characters. Use the
            following format to enter the table
            names:<codeblock>&lt;database name>.&lt;table name></codeblock></p>
        <p>For example, if you enter the following for the <uicontrol>Include Tables</uicontrol>
            property, the origin captures changes only from the orders and customers tables in the
            sales database:<codeblock>sales.orders,sales.customers</codeblock></p>
        <p>If you enter the same value in the <uicontrol>Ignore Tables</uicontrol> property, the
            origin captures changes from all tables in the log file, except for the orders and
            customers tables in the sales database.</p>
        <p>The <uicontrol>Ignore Tables</uicontrol> property takes precedence. If you include a
            table in both properties, the origin ignores the table.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
