<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_emp_1tl_dy">
 <title>Initial Offset</title>
 <shortdesc>You can configure the origin to start reading the binary log file from the beginning of
        the file or from an initial offset in the file.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>offset<indexterm>MySQL Binary Log</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>MySQL Binary Log
                    origin<indexterm>initial offset</indexterm></indexterm>The initial offset is the
            point in the binary log file where you want to start processing. When you start the
            pipeline, the MySQL Binary Log origin starts processing from the initial offset and
            continues until you stop the pipeline.</p>
        <p>The format that you use to configure the initial offset depends on whether MySQL server
            is enabled for Global Transaction Identifiers (GTID):</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>GTID enabled</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>When the database is enabled for GTID, the MySQL Binary Log origin expects
                        the initial offset to contain a GTID using the following
                        format:<codeblock>&lt;source_id>:&lt;transaction_id></codeblock></p>
                    <p>For example, to begin reading the binary log file at the GTID
                            <codeph>8720bebf-bb38-11e6-97b1-0242ac110004:7066</codeph>, you simply
                        enter that GTID for the offset.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>GTID disabled</dt>
                <dd>When the database is disabled for GTID, the MySQL Binary Log origin expects the
                    initial offset to contain both the binary log file name and a position within
                    the file. Use the following format to configure the
                    offset:<codeblock>&lt;binary log file name>:&lt;position></codeblock></dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>For example, the following offset configures the origin to start reading the
                        mysql-bin.000004 binary log file at position
                        587:<codeblock>mysql-bin.000004:587</codeblock></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <note>If you change the GTID mode on the database server after you have run a pipeline with
            the MySQL Binary Log origin, you must reset the origin and change the format of the
            initial offset value. Otherwise, the origin cannot correctly read the offset. </note>
        <p>When the pipeline stops, the MySQL Binary Log origin notes the offset where it stops
            reading. When the pipeline starts again, the origin continues processing from the last
            saved offset. You can reset the origin to process all requested objects. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
