<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kqg_1yh_xx">
 <title>MySQL Binary Log</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>MySQL Binary Log</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>MySQL Binary
                Log origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The MySQL Binary Log origin
            processes change data capture (CDC) information provided by MySQL server in binary logs.
            The origin produces records with a map of fields of CDC information. </p>
        <p>The MySQL Binary Log origin acts as a MySQL replication slave. MySQL replication allows
            you to maintain multiple copies of MySQL data by copying the data from a master to a
            slave server. The origin uses the replication process to capture changes from the MySQL
            master database and then pass the changed data to a <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            pipeline. </p>
        <p>The origin can process binary logs from a MySQL server that has Global Transaction
            Identifier (GTID) enabled or disabled. A GTID is a unique transaction ID assigned to
            every transaction that happens in the MySQL server database.</p>
        <p>MySQL Binary Log processes only change capture data. The origin creates records for the
            INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE operations. The origin produces one record for each change
            noted in the binary logs. The origin <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-CDCoverview"
            /></p>
        <p>When needed, you can use a JDBC Query Consumer or a JDBC Multitable Consumer in a
            separate pipeline to read existing data from the MySQL database before you start a
            pipeline with a MySQL Binary Log origin.</p>
        <p>Before you configure the origin, you must complete several prerequisites including
            configuring MySQL server for row-based logging and installing the JDBC driver.</p>
        <p>When you configure MySQL Binary Log, you configure the database server from which to read
            the log files. You can configure the origin to read the binary log files from the
            beginning, or you can specify an offset to determine where the origin starts reading
            data. </p>
        <p>You specify the credentials to use to connect to MySQL server, and can also configure the
            origin to use SSL to connect to the server. If you do not want to process CDC
            information from all tables in the database, you can specify the tables that the origin
            includes or ignores when it reads the binary log files.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
