<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_nmf_1ly_f1b">
 <title>OPC UA Client </title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>OPC UA Client</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>OPC UA
                Client origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The OPC UA Client origin
            processes data from an OPC UA server. The OPC UA Client origin can poll the server at
            regular intervals, returning the latest data from all specified nodes. Or it can
            subscribe to specific nodes and receive messages from the server each time a change
            related to a specified node occurs. </p>
        <p>The origin can also browse all available nodes to provide the node details that you need
            to configure the origin. </p>
        <p>When you configure the OPC UA Client origin, you specify connection information and tag
            information to associate with each client request. You select the processing mode for
            the origin and specify the NodeIds for the nodes you want to use. You can use one of
            several different methods to provide the NodeIds.</p>
        <p>You can configure channel properties, such as the maximum chunk or message size. You can
            optionally configure the security policy that you want to use, related TLS properties,
            and an optional client private key alias. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
