<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_p25_wm2_dbb">
 <title>Providing NodeIds</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>OPC UA Client origin<indexterm>providing node IDs</indexterm></indexterm>The OPC UA
            Client origin provides several ways to specify the nodeIds for the nodes that you want
            to use:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Manual</dt>
                    <dd>Manually enter the NodeId information. Use this method when you have a
                        specific set and low volume of nodes that you want to use. You can use
                        simple or bulk edit mode.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>File</dt>
                    <dd>Provide a file of NodeId information. Use this method when you have a
                        relatively static set of nodes that you want to use. You can update the file
                        as needed, but will need to restart the pipeline to capture the latest
                        nodes.</dd>
                    <dd>The file must be in a directory local to <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        />. By default, the origin expects you to secure the information in a <xref
                            href="../Pipeline_Configuration/RuntimeResources.dita#concept_bs4_5nm_2s"
                            >runtime resource file</xref>.</dd>
                    <dd>Enter the NodeId information in the file using the following JSON
                        format:<codeblock>[
	{
		"identifierType": "&lt;NUMERIC | STRING | UUID | OPAQUE>",
		"namespaceIndex": &lt;namespaceIndex>,
		"field": "&lt;field name>",
		"identifier": "&lt;node identifier>"
	},
	{
		"identifierType": "&lt;NUMERIC | STRING | UUID | OPAQUE>",
		"namespaceIndex": &lt;namespaceIndex>,
		"field": "&lt;field name>",
		"identifier": "&lt;node identifier>"
	}
]</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>
                        <note type="tip">This is the same format used when entering node information
                            manually in bulk edit mode. To verify the format, you can enter two
                            NodeIds manually in simple format, then switch to bulk edit mode.</note>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Browse Nodes</dt>
                    <dd>Specify a root NodeId, allowing the origin to browse for all available nodes
                        under the root node. Use this method when you want to process data from a
                        dynamic set of nodes that are under a single root node. </dd>
                    <dd>When you browse nodes, you specify an refresh interval. The refresh interval
                        indicates how long the origin should wait before browsing again for an
                        updated list of nodes to process. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
