<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_yqk_3hn_n1b">
 <title>Choosing Buffers</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Oracle CDC Client origin<indexterm>using local buffers</indexterm></indexterm>When
            processing data, the Oracle CDC Client can buffer data locally on the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            machine or use Oracle LogMiner buffers:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Local buffers</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>When using local buffers, the origin requests the transactions for the
                        relevant tables and time period. The origin buffers the resulting LogMiner
                        redo SQL statements until it verifies a commit for a transaction. After
                        seeing a commit, it parses and processes the committed data. </p>
                    <p>The origin can buffer the redo SQL statements completely in memory or write
                        them primarily to disk while using a small amount of memory for tracking. </p>
                    <p>By default, the origin uses local buffers. In general, using local buffers
                        should provide better performance than Oracle Log Miner buffers. </p>
                    <p>Use local buffers to process large transactions or to avoid monopolizing the
                        Oracle PGA. Buffer information in memory for better performance when <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> resources allow. Buffer information to disk to avoid monopolizing <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> resources. </p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Oracle LogMiner buffers</dt>
                <dd>When using Oracle LogMiner buffers, the origin requests data from Oracle
                    LogMiner for a particular time period. LogMiner then buffers all transactions
                    for that time period for all tables in the database, rather than only the tables
                    needed by the origin.</dd>
                <dd>LogMiner keeps the transaction information in the buffers until it reads commits
                    in the logs, then it passes the committed data to the Oracle CDC Client
                    origin.</dd>
                <dd>Depending on the size and number of the transactions and the time period being
                    buffered, buffering the transactions can monopolize the PGA, the private memory
                    region for the Oracle server process.</dd>
                <dd>Use LogMiner buffers when you do not expect the volume of transactions to
                    overtax Oracle resources.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
