<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xwg_33w_cx">
 <title>Oracle CDC Client Prerequisites</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Oracle CDC Client
                    origin<indexterm>prerequisites</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>LogMiner<indexterm>prerequisites
                    for the Oracle CDC Client origin</indexterm></indexterm>Before using the Oracle
            CDC Client origin, complete the following tasks: </p>
        <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Task 1. Enable LogMiner</dt>
                    <dd><p>LogMiner provides redo logs that summarize database activity. The origin
                            uses these logs to generate records.</p>LogMiner requires an open
                        database in ARCHIVELOG mode with archiving enabled. To determine the status
                        of the database and enable LogMiner, use the following steps:<ol
                            id="ol_xwd_pp1_jx">
                            <li>Log into the database as a user with DBA privileges.</li>
                            <li>Check the database logging
                                    mode:<codeblock>select log_mode from v$database;</codeblock><p>If
                                    the command returns ARCHIVELOG, you can skip to Task 2.
                                    </p><p>If the command returns NOARCHIVELOG, continue with the
                                    following steps:</p></li>
                            <li>Shut down the
                                database:<codeblock>shutdown immediate</codeblock></li>
                            <li>Start up and mount the
                                database:<codeblock>startup mount</codeblock></li>
                            <li>Configure enable archiving and open the
                                database:<codeblock>alter database archivelog;
alter database open;</codeblock></li>
                        </ol></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Task 2. Enable supplemental logging for the database or tables</dt>
                    <dd>To retrieve data from redo logs, LogMiner requires supplemental logging for
                        the database or tables. </dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p>The Oracle CDC Client recommends at least primary key or "identification
                            key" logging at a table level for each table that you want to use. With
                            identification key logging, records include only the primary key and
                            changed fields.</p>
                        <p>To include all fields in the records the origin generates, enable full
                            supplemental logging at a table or database level. Full supplemental
                            logging provides data from all columns, those with unchanged data as
                            well as the primary key and changed columns. For details on the data
                            included in records based on the supplemental logging type, see <xref
                                href="OracleCDC-GeneratedRecords.dita#concept_db1_3sj_fx"/>.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                        <ol id="ol_nrv_ds1_jx">
                            <li>To verify if supplemental logging is enabled for the
                                    database:<codeblock>SELECT supplemental_log_data_min, supplemental_log_data_pk, supplemental_log_data_all FROM v$database </codeblock><p>If
                                    the command returns Yes or Implicit for all three columns, then
                                    supplemental logging is enabled with both identification key and
                                    full supplemental logging. You can skip to Task 3.</p><p>If the
                                    command returns Yes or Implicit for the first two columns, then
                                    supplemental logging is enabled with identification key logging.
                                    If this is what you want, you can skip to task 3.</p></li>
                            <li>Enable identification key or full supplemental logging. You do not
                                need to enable both:<ul id="ul_ocz_dfb_jx">
                                    <li>To enable identification key logging:<p>For minimal logging,
                                            enable identification key logging at a table level for
                                            each table that you want to
                                            use:<codeblock>ALTER TABLE &lt;schema name>.&lt;table name> ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (PRIMARY KEY) COLUMNS;</codeblock></p><p>Or,
                                            to enable identification key logging for all tables,
                                            enable it for the entire
                                            database:<codeblock>ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (PRIMARY KEY) COLUMNS;</codeblock></p></li>
                                    <li>To enable full supplemental logging:<p>Use full supplemental
                                            logging when you want records to include data from all
                                            columns, those with unchanged data as well as the
                                            primary key and changed columns. </p><p>For full
                                            supplemental logging at a table level, enable it for
                                            each table that you want to
                                            use:<codeblock>ALTER TABLE &lt;schema name>.&lt;table name> ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (ALL) COLUMNS;</codeblock></p><p>Or,
                                            to enable full supplemental logging for all tables,
                                            enable it for the entire
                                        database:</p><codeblock>ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (ALL) COLUMNS;</codeblock></li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>To submit the
                                changes:<codeblock>ALTER SYSTEM SWITCH LOGFILE;</codeblock></li>
                        </ol>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Task 3. Create a user account with the required roles and privileges</dt>
                    <dd>Create a user account to use with the Oracle CDC Client origin. You need the
                        account to access the database through JDBC. </dd>
                    <dd>You create accounts differently based on the Oracle version that you use:<dl>
                            <dlentry>
                                <dt>Oracle 12c multitenant databases</dt>
                                <dd>For multitenant Oracle 12c databases, create a common user
                                    account. Common user accounts are created in cdb$root and must
                                    use the convention: <codeph>c##&lt;name></codeph>. </dd>
                                <dd>
                                    <ol id="ol_oxw_qy1_jx">
                                        <li>Log into the database as a user with DBA
                                            privileges.</li>
                                        <li>Create the common user
                                                account:<codeblock>ALTER SESSION SET CONTAINER=cdb$root;
CREATE USER &lt;user name> IDENTIFIED BY &lt;password> CONTAINER=all;
GRANT create session, alter session, set container, select any dictionary, logmining, execute_catalog_role TO &lt;username> CONTAINER=all;
ALTER SESSION SET CONTAINER=&lt;pdb>
GRANT select on &lt;db>.&lt;table> TO &lt;user name></codeblock><p>Repeat
                                                the final command for each table that you want to
                                                use.</p></li>
                                    </ol>
                                </dd>
                                <dd>
                                    <p>When you configure the origin, use this user account for the
                                        JDBC credentials. Use the entire user name, including the
                                        "c##", as the JDBC user name.</p>
                                </dd>
                            </dlentry>
                            <dlentry>
                                <dt>Oracle 12c standard databases</dt>
                                <dd>For standard Oracle 12c databases, create a user account with
                                    the necessary privileges: <ol id="ol_jx5_4g3_jx">
                                        <li>Log into the database as a user with DBA
                                            privileges.</li>
                                        <li>Create the user
                                                account:<codeblock>CREATE USER &lt;user name> IDENTIFIED BY &lt;password>;
GRANT create session, alter session, select any dictionary, logmining, execute_catalog_role TO &lt;username>;
GRANT select on &lt;db>.&lt;table> TO &lt;user name>"</codeblock><p>Repeat
                                                the final command for each table that you want to
                                                use.</p></li>
                                    </ol></dd>
                                <dd>
                                    <p>When you configure the origin, use this user account for the
                                        JDBC credentials. </p>
                                </dd>
                            </dlentry>
                        </dl></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Task 4. Install the Oracle JDBC driver </dt>
                    <dd>The Oracle CDC Client origin connects to Oracle through JDBC. You cannot
                        access the database until you install the required driver. </dd>
                    <dd>Install the Oracle JDBC driver for the Oracle database version that you use.
                        For more information, see <xref
                            href="../Install_Config/AdditionalDrivers.dita#concept_pdv_qlw_ft"
                        />.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
