<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gvh_3c2_3y">
 <title>Task 2. Enable Supplemental Logging</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Oracle CDC Client<indexterm>prerequisite - supplemental
                logging</indexterm></indexterm>To retrieve data from redo logs, LogMiner requires
            supplemental logging for the database or tables. </p>
        <p>Enable at least primary key or "identification key" logging at a table level for each
            table that you want to use. With identification key logging, records include only the
            primary key and changed fields. </p>
        <p>Due to an Oracle known issue, to enable supplemental logging for a table, you must first
            enable minimum supplemental logging for the database. </p>
        <p>To include all fields in the records the origin generates, enable full supplemental
            logging at a table or database level. Full supplemental logging provides data from all
            columns, those with unchanged data as well as the primary key and changed columns. For
            details on the data included in records based on the supplemental logging type, see
                <xref href="OracleCDC-GeneratedRecords.dita#concept_vfw_bjz_ty"/>.<ol
                id="ol_nrv_ds1_jx">
                <li>To verify if supplemental logging is enabled for the database, run the following
                        command:<codeblock>SELECT supplemental_log_data_min, supplemental_log_data_pk, supplemental_log_data_all FROM v$database;</codeblock><p>If
                        the command returns Yes or Implicit for all three columns, then supplemental
                        logging is enabled with both identification key and full supplemental
                        logging. You can skip to <xref
                            href="OracleCDC-T3-UserAcct.dita#concept_jnz_bd2_3y">Task
                        3.</xref></p><p>If the command returns Yes or Implicit for the first two
                        columns, then supplemental logging is enabled with identification key
                        logging. If this is what you want, you can skip to <xref
                            href="OracleCDC-T3-UserAcct.dita#concept_jnz_bd2_3y">Task
                    3</xref>.</p></li>
                <li>Enable identification key or full supplemental logging. <p>For 12c multitenant
                        databases, best practice is to enable logging for the container for the
                        tables, rather than the entire database. You can use the following command
                        first to apply the changes to just the
                        container:<codeblock>ALTER SESSION SET CONTAINER=&lt;pdb>;</codeblock></p>You
                    can enable identification key or full supplemental logging to retrieve data from
                    redo logs. You do not need to enable both:<dl>
                        <dlentry>
                            <dt>To enable identification key logging</dt>
                            <dd>You can enable identification key logging for individual tables or
                                all tables in the database:</dd>
                            <dd>
                                <ul id="ul_ehq_msh_hy">
                                    <li>For individual tables<p>Use the following commands to enable
                                            minimal supplemental logging for the database, and then
                                            enable identification key logging for each table that
                                            you want to
                                        use:</p><codeblock>ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA;</codeblock><codeblock>ALTER TABLE &lt;schema name>.&lt;table name> ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (PRIMARY KEY) COLUMNS;</codeblock></li>
                                    <li>For all tables<p>Use the following command to enable
                                            identification key logging for the entire
                                        database:</p><codeblock>ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (PRIMARY KEY) COLUMNS;</codeblock></li>
                                </ul>
                            </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                            <dt>To enable full supplemental logging</dt>
                            <dd>You can enable full supplemental logging for individual tables or
                                all tables in the database:</dd>
                            <dd>
                                <ul id="ul_zkx_rsh_hy">
                                    <li>
                                        <p>For individual tables</p>
                                        <p>Use the following commands to enable minimal supplemental
                                            logging for the database, and then enable full
                                            supplemental logging for each table that you want to
                                            use:<codeblock>ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA;</codeblock><codeblock>ALTER TABLE &lt;schema name>.&lt;table name> ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (ALL) COLUMNS;</codeblock></p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li><p>For all tables</p>Use the following command to enable
                                        full supplemental logging for the entire
                                        database:<codeblock>ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (ALL) COLUMNS;</codeblock></li>
                                </ul>
                            </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                    </dl></li>
                <li>To submit the changes:<codeblock>ALTER SYSTEM SWITCH LOGFILE;</codeblock></li>
            </ol></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
