<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rs5_hjj_tw">
    <title>Oracle CDC Client</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Oracle CDC Client</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Oracle
                CDC Client origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The Oracle CDC Client
            processes change data capture (CDC) information provided by Oracle LogMiner redo logs.
            Use Oracle CDC Client to process data from Oracle 11g or 12c.</p>
        <p>When needed, you can use a separate pipeline with the JDBC Query Consumer or JDBC
            Multitable  Consumer origin to read existing data before you start a pipeline with
            Oracle CDC Client.</p>
        <p>Oracle CDC Client processes data based on the commit number, in ascending order. </p>
        <p>To read the redo logs, Oracle CDC Client requires the LogMiner dictionary. The origin can
            use the dictionary in redo logs or in an online catalog. When using the dictionary in
            redo logs, the origin captures and adjusts to schema changes. The origin can also
            generate events when using redo log dictionaries. </p>
        <p>The origin can create records for the INSERT, UPDATE, SELECT_FOR_UPDATE, and DELETE
            operations for one or more tables in a database. You can select the operations that you
            want to use. The origin also includes CDC and CRUD information in record header
            attributes so generated records can be easily processed by CRUD-enabled destinations.
            For an overview of <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            changed data processing and a list of CRUD-enabled destinations, see <xref
                href="../Pipeline_Design/CDC-Overview.dita#concept_apw_l2c_ty"/>.</p>
        <p>
            <note>To use Oracle CDC Client, you must enable LogMiner for the database that you want
                to use and complete the necessary prerequisite tasks. The origin uses JDBC to access
                the database.</note>
        </p>
        <p>When you configure Oracle CDC Client, you configure change data capture details, such as
            the schema and tables to read from, how to read the initial change, the dictionary
            source location, and the operations to include. You also specify the transaction window
            and LogMiner session windows to use. </p>
        <p>You can configure the origin to buffer records locally or to use database buffers. Before
            using local buffers, verify that the required resources are available and specify the
            action to take for uncommitted transactions.</p>
        <p>You can specify the behavior when the origin encounters an unsupported data type, and you
            can configure the origin to pass null values when it receives them from supplemental
            logging data. </p>
        <p>You also specify JDBC connection information and user credentials. If the schema was
            created in a pluggable database, state the pluggable database name. You can configure
            custom properties that the driver requires.</p>
        <p>
            <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-JDBC-legacyInfo"
            /></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
