<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_eq5_wh2_dx">
 <title>LogMiner Dictionary Source</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Oracle CDC Client origin<indexterm>dictionary
                source</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>dictionary source<indexterm>Oracle CDC
                    Client origin</indexterm></indexterm>LogMiner provides dictionaries to help
            process redo logs. LogMiner can store dictionaries in several locations. </p>
        <p>The Oracle CDC Client can use the following dictionary source locations:<ul
                id="ul_dn5_qyc_fx">
                <li>Online catalog - Use the online catalog when table structures are not expected
                    to change.</li>
                <li>Redo logs - Use redo logs when table structures are expected to change. When
                    reading the dictionary from redo logs, the Oracle CDC Client origin determines
                    when schema changes occur and refreshes the schema that it uses to create
                    records. The origin can also generate events for each DDL it reads in the redo
                    logs. <note type="important">When using the dictionary in redo logs, make sure
                        to extract the latest dictionary to the redo logs each time table structures
                        change. For more information, see <xref
                            href="OracleCDC-T4-ExtractDict.dita#concept_ypm_fv1_vy"/> .</note></li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>Note that using the dictionary in redo logs can have significantly higher latency than
            using the dictionary in the online catalog. But using the online catalog does not allow
            for schema changes. </p>
        <p>For more information about dictionary options and configuring LogMiner, see the Oracle
            LogMiner documentation. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
