<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_h2t_hx1_vy">
 <title>Event Generation</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Oracle CDC Client origin<indexterm>event
                generation</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>the event framework<indexterm>Oracle
                    CDC Client event generation</indexterm></indexterm>The Oracle CDC Client origin
            can generate events that you can use in an event stream when the origin uses redo logs
            as the dictionary source. The origin does not generate events when using the online
            catalog as the dictionary source.</p>
        <p>When you use redo logs as the dictionary source and enable event generation, the Oracle
            CDC Client generates events when it reads DDL statements. It generates events for ALTER,
            CREATE, DROP, and TRUNCATE statements.</p>
        <p>When you start the pipeline, the origin queries the database and caches the schemas for
            all tables listed in the origin, and then generates an initial event record for each
            table. Each event record describes the current schema for each table. The origin uses
            the cached schemas to generate records when processing data-related redo log entries. </p>
        <p>The origin then generates an event record for each DDL statement it encounters in the
            redo logs. Each event record includes the DDL statement and the related table in record
            header attributes. </p>
        <p>The origin includes table schema information in the event record for new and updated
            tables. When the origin encounters an ALTER or CREATE statement, it queries the database
            for the latest schema for the table. </p>
        <p>If the ALTER statement is an update to a cached schema, the origin updates the cache and
            includes the updated table schema in the event record. If the ALTER statement is older
            than the cached schema, the origin does not include the table schema in the event
            record. Similarly, if the CREATE statement is for a "new" table, the origin caches the
            new table and includes the table schema in the event record. Because the origin verifies
            that all specified tables exist when the pipeline starts, this can occur only when the
            table is dropped and created after the pipeline starts. If the CREATE statement is for a
            table that is already cached, the origin does not include the table schema in the event
            record. </p>
        <p>Oracle CDC Client events can be used in any logical way. For example: <ul
                id="ul_a13_dtc_yz">
                <li
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/D-li-Event-Email"/>
                <li
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/D-li-Event-FileStore"
                />
            </ul></p>
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventGen-xref"
        /></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
