<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rg5_yts_y1b">
 <title>Record Header Attributes</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>RabbitMQ Consumer origin<indexterm>record header
                attributes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>record header
                    attributes<indexterm>RabbitMQ Consumer</indexterm></indexterm>The RabbitMQ
            Consumer origin includes information from RabbitMQ basic properties in the record header
            attributes of the generated record. When the origin <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-Avro-HeaderAttribute"
            /></p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/Reusable_Topics/ReusableJDBCHeaderAttributes.dita#concept_fbf_rk2_py/functions"/>
        <p>The origin includes information in the following record header attributes when
                available:<ul id="ul_tsp_q5s_y1b">
                <li
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/li-avroSchema"/>
                <li>appId - Provides information from the RabbitMQ app-id property.</li>
                <li>contentType - Provides information from the RabbitMQ content-type property.</li>
                <li>contentEncoding - Provides information from the RabbitMQ content-encoding
                    property.</li>
                <li>correlationId - Provides information from the RabbitMQ correlation-id
                    property.</li>
                <li>deliveryMode - Provides information from the RabbitMQ delivery-mode
                    property.</li>
                <li>deliveryTag - Provides information from the RabbitMQ delivery-tag property.</li>
                <li>exchange - Provides information from the RabbitMQ exchange-name property.</li>
                <li>expiration - Provides information from the RabbitMQ expiration property.</li>
                <li>messageId - Provides information from the RabbitMQ message-id property.</li>
                <li>messageType - Provides information from the RabbitMQ type property.</li>
                <li>priority - Provides information from the RabbitMQ priority property.</li>
                <li>redelivered - Provides information from the RabbitMQ redelivered property.</li>
                <li>replyTo - Provides information from the RabbitMQ reply-to property.</li>
                <li>routingKey - Provides information from the RabbitMQ routing-key property.</li>
                <li>timestamp - Provides information from the RabbitMQ timestamp property.</li>
                <li>userId - Provides information from the RabbitMQ user-id property.</li>
            </ul></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
