<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_owv_nj5_2z">
 <title>Repeat Query</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Salesforce origin<indexterm>repeat query type</indexterm></indexterm>When the
            Salesforce origin processes existing data and is not subscribed to notifications, it can
            repeat the specified query at regular intervals. You can configure the origin to repeat
            a full or incremental query: </p>
        <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Full query</dt>
                    <dd>When the origin repeats a full query, it runs the defined query using the
                        initial offset as the offset value in the query each time it requests
                        data.</dd>
                    <dd>Repeat a full query to capture all record updates. You might use a Record
                        Deduplicator in the pipeline to minimize repeated records. Not ideal for
                        objects with large numbers of records.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Incremental query</dt>
                    <dd>When the Salesforce origin repeats an incremental query, it uses the initial
                        offset as the offset value in the first query. </dd>
                    <dd>As the origin completes processing the results of the first query, it saves
                        the last offset value that it processes. When it repeats the query, it uses
                        the last-saved offset to perform an incremental query. The incremental query
                        processes only the subset of data that arrived after the last query. When
                        necessary, you can reset the origin to use the initial offset value. </dd>
                    <dd>Repeat an incremental query for append-only objects or when you do not need
                        to capture changes to older records.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
