<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_djn_x4c_tx">
 <title>Query Existing Data</title>
 <shortdesc>The Salesforce origin can execute a query to read existing data from Salesforce. Use the
        Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL) to write the query.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Salesforce origin<indexterm>query existing data</indexterm></indexterm>When
            you configure the origin to query existing data, you specify whether the origin uses the
            Salesforce Bulk API or SOAP API to read from Salesforce. The Bulk API is optimized to
            process large sets of data. The SOAP API supports more complex queries, but is less
            practical when processing large sets of data. For more information about when to use the
            Bulk or SOAP API, see the Salesforce Developer documentation. </p>
        <p>If the origin uses the SOAP API or uses the Bulk API version <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/Reusable_Topics/Salesforce-APIVersion.dita#task_qzy_4ck_dy/ph_SalesforceAPIVersion"
            /> or later, you can configure the origin to retrieve deleted records from the
            Salesforce recycle bin.</p>
        <p>The Salesforce origin uses an offset field and initial offset value to determine where to
            start reading data within an object. Include both the offset field and the offset value
            in the WHERE clause of the SOQL query. By default, the offset field is defined as the
            Salesforce <systemoutput>Id</systemoutput> field. The <codeph>Id</codeph> system field
            contains a unique identifier for each record in a Salesforce object. The initial offset
            value is a value within the offset field where you want the Salesforce origin to start
            reading. </p>
        <p>If you configure the origin to query existing data but not to subscribe to notifications,
            you can configure the origin to run the query once or to repeat the query. When running
            the query once, the pipeline stops when it finishes reading all data from the Salesforce
            object. If you start the pipeline again, the origin uses the initial offset value to
            start reading, reading the entire set of existing data again. </p>
        <p>If the pipeline stops before it finishes reading all data, the Salesforce origin saves
            the last read offset value. When the pipeline starts again, the origin uses the last
            read offset value to continue processing from where it stopped. You can reset the origin
            to process all requested objects. When you configure the origin to run the query more
            than once, the pipeline runs continuously so it can repeat the query at regular
            intervals. You can choose how the origin repeats the query. For more information, see
                <xref href="Salesforce-RepeatQuery.dita#concept_owv_nj5_2z"/>.</p>
        <p>When the origin is configured to subscribe to notifications, the pipeline runs
            continuously so that it can receive changed events. If you configure the origin to both
            query existing data and to subscribe to notifications, the origin first subscribes for
            changes, then queries for existing data. The changes are queued and processed after the
            query is complete. As a result, some changes might be processed twice. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
