<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_nnd_y4c_tx">
 <title>Subscribe to Notifications</title>
 <shortdesc>The Salesforce origin can subscribe to the Force.com Streaming API to receive
        notifications for changes to Salesforce data.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Salesforce origin<indexterm>subscribe to notifications</indexterm></indexterm>To
            configure the origin to subscribe to notifications, you must first create a PushTopic in
            Salesforce based on an SOQL query. The PushTopic query defines which record create,
            update, delete, or undelete events generate a notification. If the record changes match
            the criteria of the PushTopic query, a notification is generated and received by the
            subscribed clients. </p>
        <p>The Salesforce origin is the client that subscribes to the PushTopic. In the origin
            configuration, you specify the name of the PushTopic, which subscribes the origin to the
            PushTopic channel.</p>
        <p>When you start a pipeline configured to subscribe to Salesforce notifications, the
            pipeline runs continuously, receiving any changed data events in the origin as records. </p>
        <note>The Streaming API stores events for 24 hours. If the pipeline stops and then restarts
            within 24 hours, the origin can receive notifications about past events. However, if the
            pipeline is inactive for more than 24 hours, the origin might miss some events.</note>
        <p>For more information about creating PushTopic queries, see the Salesforce Streaming API
            developer documentation.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
