<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_odf_vr3_rx">
 <title>Salesforce</title>
 <shortdesc>The Salesforce origin reads data from Salesforce.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Salesforce</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Salesforce
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>When you configure the
            Salesforce origin, you define connection information that the origin uses to connect to
            Salesforce, including the API type and version that the origin uses to connect to
            Salesforce. </p>
        <p>You can configure the origin to read data in one or both of the following ways: </p>
        <ul id="ul_kr4_1np_tx">
            <li>Execute a query to read existing data from Salesforce. </li>
            <li>Subscribe to the Force.com Streaming API to receive notifications for changes to
                Salesforce data.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>When processing existing data, you can configure the origin to query Salesforce at
            regular intervals. You cannot use repeating queries when subscribed to notifications.
            When repeating a query, the origin can perform a full or incremental read. </p>
        <p>The origin generates Salesforce record header attributes and Salesforce field attributes
            that provide additional information about each record and field. The origin also <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-CDCoverview"
            /></p>
        <p>You can optionally use an HTTP proxy to connect to Salesforce.</p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"/>
    </conbody>
</concept>
