<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_p3b_5ms_pw">
 <title>Concurrent Requests</title>
 <shortdesc>You can specify the maximum number of requests the SDC RPC to Kafka origin handles at
        one time. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>SDC RPC to Kafka<indexterm>concurrent requests</indexterm></indexterm>An SDC RPC
            destination in an origin pipeline sends a request to the SDC RPC to Kafka origin when it
            wants to pass a batch of data to the origin. If you have one origin pipeline passing
            data to the SDC RPC to Kafka origin, you can set the maximum number of concurrent
            requests to 1 because the destination processes one batch of data at a time.</p>
        <p>Typically, you would have more than one pipeline passing data to this origin. In this
            case, you should assess the number of origin pipelines, the expected output of the
            pipelines, and the resources of the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            machine, and then tune the property as needed to improve pipeline performance.</p>
        <p>For example, if you have 100 origin pipelines passing data to the SDC RPC to Kafka
            origin, but the pipelines produce data slowly, you can set the maximum to 20 to prevent
            these pipelines from using too much of the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            resources during spikes in volume. Or, if the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            has no resource issues and you want it to process data as quickly as possible, you can
            set the maximum to 90 or 100. Note that the SDC RPC destination also has advanced
            properties for retry and back off periods that can be used help tune performance.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
