<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ezk_btx_pw">
    <title>Batch Request Size, Kafka Message Size, and Kafka Configuration</title>
    <shortdesc>Configure the SDC RPC to Kafka maximum batch request size and Kafka message size
        properties in relationship to each other and to the maximum message size configured in
        Kafka.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The <uicontrol>Max Batch Request Size (MB) </uicontrol> property determines the maximum
            size of the batch of data that the origin accepts from each SDC RPC destination. Upon
            receiving a batch of data, the origin immediately writes the data to Kafka.</p>
        <p>To promote peak performance, the origin writes as many records as possible into a single
            Kafka message. The Kafka <uicontrol>Max Message Size (KB)</uicontrol> property
            determines the maximum size of the message that it creates. </p>
        <note type="important">The maximum message size specified in the origin must be smaller than
            the maximum message size configured in Kafka. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-ToKafka-DefKafkaMessageSize"
            /> If the origin receives a message greater than the maximum message size, it fails to
            process the batch, and the destination that provided the batch processes it based on the
            error record handling configured for the destination.</note>
        <p>For example, say the origin uses the default 100 MB for the maximum batch request size
            and the default 900 KB for the maximum message size, and Kafka uses the 1 MB default for
            message.max.bytes. </p>
        <p>When the origin requests a batch of data, it receives up to 100 MB of data at a time.
            When the origin writes to Kafka it groups records into as few messages as possible,
            including up to 900 KB of records in each message. Since the message size is less than
            the Kafka 1 MB requirement, the origin successfully writes all messages to Kafka.</p>
        <p>If a record is larger than the 900 KB maximum message size, the origin generates an error
            and does not write the record - or the batch that includes the record - to Kafka. The
            SDC RPC destination that provided the batch with the oversized record processes the
            batch based on stage error record handling. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
