<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ewq_b2s_r1b">
 <title>SQL Server Change Tracking</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>SQL Server Change Tracking</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>SQL
                Server Change Tracking origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The SQL
            Server Change Tracking origin processes data from Microsoft SQL Server change tracking
            tables. By default, it generates a record with change tracking information and the
            latest version of each record from the data tables. You can configure it to use only the
            change tracking information. The origin uses multiple threads to enable parallel
            processing of data. </p>
        <p>Use the SQL Server Change Tracking origin to generate records from change tracking
            tables. To read data from Microsoft SQL Server change data capture (CDC) tables, use the
                <xref href="SQLServerCDC.dita#concept_ut3_ywc_v1b">SQL Server CDC Client
                origin</xref>. For more information about the differences between change tracking
            and CDC data, see the <xref
                href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/track-changes/track-data-changes-sql-server"
                format="html" scope="external">Microsoft SQL Server documentation</xref>. </p>
        <p>The SQL Server Change Tracking origin includes the CRUD operation type in a record header
            attribute so generated records can be easily processed by CRUD-enabled destinations. For
            an overview of Data Collector changed data processing and a list of CRUD-enabled
            destinations, see <xref href="../Pipeline_Design/CDC-Overview.dita#concept_apw_l2c_ty"
            />. </p>
        <p>You might use this origin to perform database replication. You can use a separate
            pipeline with the JDBC Query Consumer or JDBC Multitable Consumer origin to read
            existing data. Then start a pipeline with the SQL Server Change Tracking origin to
            process subsequent changes.</p>
        <p>When you configure the origin, you can define groups of change tracking tables in the
            same database and any initial offsets to use. When you omit initial offsets, the origin
            processes only incoming data.  </p>
        <p>To determine how the origin connects to the database, you specify connection information,
            a query interval, number of retries, and any custom JDBC configuration properties that
            you need.</p>
        <p>You specify whether you want to include the latest version of the data in generated
            records or whether to include only change tracking data. You define the number of
            threads that the origin uses to read from the tables and the strategy that the origin
            uses to create each batch of data. You also define the initial order that the origin
            uses to read the tables. </p>
        <p>To use a JDBC version older than 4.0, you can specify the driver class name and define a
            health check query.</p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"/>
 </conbody>
</concept>
