<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_yqg_sts_r1b">
 <title>Generated Record</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>SQL Server Change Tracking origin</indexterm>The SQL Server Change Tracking origin
            can generate a record in the following ways:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Change tracking and current data</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <p>By default, when the SQL Server Change Tracking origin generates a
                            record, it includes the data from the change tracking table and performs
                            an outer join with the current version of the table.</p>
                        <p>The resulting record includes the following:<ul id="ul_lgh_t2z_t1b">
                                <li>Change tracking fields such as SYS_CHANGE_VERSION,
                                    SYS_CHANGE_CREATION_VERSION, SYS_CHANGE_OPERATION, etc.</li>
                                <li>The latest version of the record, when available.</li>
                            </ul></p>
                        <p>
                            <note type="important">Unlike a record generated by a CDC origin, the
                                change tracking record includes the latest version of the record,
                                not the version of the record created by the change.</note>
                        </p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Change tracking only</dt>
                    <dd>You can configure the origin to omit the join and produce a record with only
                        the change tracking data. The resulting record includes the following: </dd>
                    <dd>
                        <ul id="ul_kzf_hfz_t1b">
                            <li>Change tracking fields such as SYS_CHANGE_VERSION,
                                SYS_CHANGE_CREATION_VERSION, etc.</li>
                            <li>Primary key fields for the changed record, provided by the change
                                tracking table.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
        <p>All generated records include change tracking information in record header
            attributes.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
