<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_avq_s2q_qbb">
 <title>Checking for Schema Changes</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>SQL Server CDC Client origin<indexterm>checking for schema
                changes</indexterm></indexterm>You can configure the SQL Server CDC Client origin to
            check for schema changes in the tables being processed. When checking for schema
            changes, the origin includes a schema check statement in the SQL query. </p>
        <p>When the origin checks for schema changes, it performs the following tasks:<ol
                id="ol_xhx_b3q_qbb">
                <li>Compares current table schemas with the original table schemas at regular
                    intervals, based on the Query Interval property.</li>
                <li>If it determines that the schema of a table has changed, it generates a
                    schema-change event that states the table or capture instance name with the
                    changed schema.<p>The origin generates a schema-change event each time that it
                        finds a schema change: one for each table with a schema change. </p><p>
                        <note>Since the origin continues to check for schema changes at regular
                            intervals until the pipeline stops, a single schema change can generate
                            a large volume of events.</note>
                    </p></li>
                <li>It can write the exact column name or data type change to the <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> log. To enable writing to the log, the log level must be set to Trace. For
                    information about changing the log level, see <xref
                        href="../Administration/ModifyingLogLevel.dita#task_lkv_g2f_wy"/>.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p>To enable the SQL Server CDC Client origin to check for schema changes and generate
            events when discovering them, enable both of the following properties:<ul
                id="ul_wrj_pkv_qbb">
                <li>On the General tab, select the Produce Events property.</li>
                <li>On the JDBC tab, select the Enable Schema Changes Event property.</li>
            </ul></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
