<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_sx3_d11_s1b">
 <title>Table Configuration</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><draft-comment author="Loretta">Note: any changes here should probably also go into the SQL
                Server Change Tracking version of this topic. – except the Capture Instance Name is
                just CDC client.</draft-comment><indexterm>SQL Server CDC Client
                    origin<indexterm>table configuration</indexterm></indexterm>When you configure
            SQL Server CDC Client, you can define multiple CDC tables using a single set of table
            configuration properties. You can also define multiple table configurations to process
            multiple groups of CDC tables. </p>
        <p>When you define table configurations you can define the following properties for each set
            of tables:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Capture Instance Name</dt>
                    <dd>Determines the CDC tables to process. The naming convention for Microsoft
                        SQL Server CDC tables is &lt;capture instance name>_CT. When specifying this
                        property, use the capture instance name, not the names of the CDC tables to
                        be processed. For example, specify the <codeph>dbo.customer</codeph> source
                        table, not the associated CDC table, <codeph>dbo_customer_CT</codeph>.</dd>
                    <dd>When you configure the Capture Instance Name property, you can specify a
                        pattern that describes a set of capture instance names to use. If capture
                        instance names are not set up in the database, then you specify a pattern
                        for the table names to process. </dd>
                    <dd>You can use SQL-like syntax to define the set of CDC tables to process. For
                        example, the pattern <codeph>east%</codeph> matches tables whose names start
                        with "east". For more information about SQL LIKE syntax, see <xref
                            href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms179859.aspx"
                            format="html" scope="external"/>. </dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p>When configuring the Capture Instance Name property, you can use one of
                            the following formats:<ul
                                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/CaptureInstance-Formats"
                                id="ul_g52_x1q_qbb">
                                <li/>
                            </ul></p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Table exclusion pattern</dt>
                    <dd>Optionally specify a regex pattern for the table names that you want to
                        exclude from the query.<p>For example, say you want to process all CDC
                            tables in the schema except for those that start with "dept". You can
                            use the default % for the table name pattern, and enter dept* for the
                            table exclusion pattern.</p><p>For more information about using regular
                            expressions with <ph
                                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                            />, see <xref href="../Apx-RegEx/RegEx-Overview.dita#concept_vd4_nsc_gs"
                            />. </p></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Initial offset</dt>
                    <dd>To process existing data, specify an initial offset. When not set, the
                        origin processes all available CDC data. </dd>
                    <dd>The SQL Server CDC Client origin uses the <codeph>__$start_lsn</codeph>
                        column as the offset column. To process existing data, define the offset
                        value to use. The offset is used for all tables included in the table
                        configuration. <note type="important">When you specify an initial offset,
                            the origin starts with the first value greater than the specified
                            offset. </note></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
