<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ut3_ywc_v1b">
 <title>SQL Server CDC Client</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>origins<indexterm>SQL Server CDC Client</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>SQL
                Server CDC Client origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The SQL Server
            CDC Client origin processes data in Microsoft SQL Server change data capture (CDC)
            tables. The origin uses multiple threads to enable parallel processing of data. </p>
        <p>Use the SQL Server CDC Client origin to generate records from CDC tables. To read data
            from Microsoft SQL Server change tracking tables, use the <xref
                href="SQLServerChange.dita#concept_ewq_b2s_r1b">SQL Server Change Tracking
                origin</xref>. For more information about the differences between CDC and change
            tracking data, see the <xref
                href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/track-changes/track-data-changes-sql-server"
                format="html" scope="external">Microsoft SQL Server documentation</xref>.</p>
        <p>The SQL Server CDC Client origin includes the CRUD operation type in a record header
            attribute so generated records can be easily processed by CRUD-enabled destinations. For
            an overview of <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            changed data processing and a list of CRUD-enabled destinations, see <xref
                href="../Pipeline_Design/CDC-Overview.dita#concept_apw_l2c_ty"/>. </p>
        <p>You might use this origin to perform database replication. You can use a separate
            pipeline with the JDBC Query Consumer or JDBC Multitable Consumer origin to read
            existing data. Then start a pipeline with the SQL Server CDC Client origin to process
            subsequent changes.</p>
        <p>When you configure the origin, you specify the SQL Server capture instance names - the
            origin processes the related CDC tables. You can define groups of tables in the same
            database and any initial offsets to use. When you omit initial offsets, the origin
            processes all available data in the CDC tables.</p>
        <p>You can enable late table processing to allow the origin to process tables that appear
            after the pipeline starts. You can also configure the origin to check for schema changes
            in processed tables and to generate an event after discovering a change.</p>
        <p>To determine how the origin connects to the database, you specify connection information,
            a query interval, number of retries, and any custom JDBC configuration properties that
            you need. </p>
        <p>To use a JDBC version older than 4.0, you can specify the driver class name and define a
            health check query.</p>
        <p
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventHandling-overview"
        />
    </conbody>
</concept>
