<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_sx3_d11_s1b">
 <title>Table Configuration</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>SQL Server Change Tracking origin<indexterm>table
                configuration</indexterm></indexterm><draft-comment author="Loretta">Note: any
                changes here should probably also go into the SQL Server CDC Client version of this
                topic.</draft-comment>When you configure the SQL Server Change Tracking origin, you
            define multiple tables using a single set of table configuration properties and you can
            define multiple table configurations to process multiple groups of change tables. When
            you define table configurations you can define the following properties for each set of
                tables:<ul id="ul_nrw_s21_s1b">
                <li>Schema - The schema where the tables reside.</li>
            </ul><ul id="ul_gkr_r21_s1b">
                <li>Table name pattern - Use SQL-like syntax to define a set of tables to process.
                    For example, the table name pattern st% matches tables whose names start with
                    "st". The default pattern, %, matches all tables in the schema. <p>For more
                        information about valid patterns for the SQL LIKE syntax, see <xref
                            href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms179859.aspx"
                            format="html" scope="external"/>. </p></li>
                <li>Table exclusion pattern - When necessary, use a regex pattern to exclude certain
                    tables that match the table name pattern from being read. <p>For example, say
                        you want to process all change tracking tables in the schema except for
                        those that start with "dept". You can use the default % for the table name
                        pattern, and enter dept* for the table exclusion pattern.</p><p>For more
                        information about using regular expressions with Data Collector, see <xref
                            href="../Apx-RegEx/RegEx-Overview.dita#concept_vd4_nsc_gs"/>. </p></li>
                <li>Initial offset - The SQL Server Change Tracking origin uses the
                    SYS_CHANGE_VERSION column as the offset column. To process existing data, define
                    the offset value to use. The offset is used for all tables included in the table
                    configuration. <p>When not set, the origin processes only incoming data.
                        </p><note type="important">When processing an offset, the origin starts with
                        the first value greater than the specified offset. </note></li>
            </ul></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
