<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ppm_xb1_4z">
 <title>TCP Server</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>TCP Server
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>TCP
                    Server</indexterm></indexterm>The TCP Server origin listens at the specified
            port numbers, establishes TCP sessions with clients that initiate TCP connections, and
            then processes the incoming data.</p>
        <p>The origin can operate in different modes. The modes determine the messages that it can
            process. It can process NetFlow messages or syslog messages. It can also process
            supported <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            data formats passed as data separated by specified characters, or passed as
            character-based data with length prefixes.</p>
        <p>The TCP Server can process data from can process data from multiple clients
            simultaneously, creating separate batches for each client, and sending acknowledgements
            to the originating client after parsing each record or committing each batch. You can
            configure the origin to use multiple threads to improve performance when processing of
            large volumes of data. And on 64-bit Linux systems, you can enable native Epoll
            transports to further improve performance.</p>
        <p>When you configure the TCP Server origin, you specify the ports to use and the TCP mode
            that indicates the type of data the origin will receive. Then you configure mode-related
            properties, such as the characters that separate records. </p>
        <p>You can optionally configure the acknowledgements that you want to send. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/TLS-overview-ph"
            /></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
