<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xgd_zr5_zz">
 <title>Using Expressions in Messages</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>TCP Server origin<indexterm>expressions in
                acknowledgements</indexterm></indexterm>You can use the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            expression language to create custom acknowledgement messages. You might use expressions
            to include information about <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>,
            the pipeline, record, or batch in the message.</p>
        <p>For example, if you have multiple <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>s
            processing data from the same client, you might use the following record processed
            message to include the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            host name and the pipeline title in the message, along with a record
            identifier:<codeblock>${record:value('/id')} was processed by Data Collector: ${sdc:hostname()}, 
pipeline: ${pipeline:title()}.</codeblock></p>
        <p>You can set the time zone to use for datetime values returned by expressions. By default,
            the origin uses UTC.</p>
        <p><note>In a batch completion message, record functions return information from the last
                record in the batch. </note>You can use the batchSize variable to return the number
            of records included in the batch. The batchSize variable can be used only with the TCP
            Server origin and must be typed into the message. The batchSize variable does not appear
            in the expression completion list.</p>
        <p>For example, the following message includes the number of records in the batch, the
            transaction ID of the last record in the batch, and the pipeline that performed the
            processing:<codeblock>Pipeline: ${pipeline:title()} committed a batch whose last record was 
${record:value('/transactionID')} and included ${batchSize} messages.</codeblock></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
