<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qtl_jzg_5bb">
 <title>Receiver and Worker Threads</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>UDP Multithreaded Source origin<indexterm>receiver threads and worker
                    threads</indexterm></indexterm>The UDP Multithreaded Source origin uses both of
            the following types of threads:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Receiver threads</dt>
                    <dd>Used to pass data from the operating system socket to the origin's packet
                        queue. By default, the origin uses a single receiver thread. <p>You can
                            configure the origin to use multiple receiver threads when <ph
                                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                            /> runs on a machine enabled for epoll. Epoll requires native libraries
                            and is only available when Data Collector runs on recent versions of
                            64-bit Linux. </p><p>When you enable multiple receiver threads, you
                            increase the rate that data can be passed to the origin, but at the cost
                            of a standard increase of overhead for thread management. </p><p>To use
                            additional receiver threads, select the Use Native Transports (epoll)
                            property, and then configure Number of Receiver
                            Threads.</p><draft-comment author="Loretta">Info in this DLentry is also
                            used in the UDP Source > Receiver Threads section. Updates here might
                            also want to go there.</draft-comment></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Worker threads</dt>
                    <dd>Used to perform multithreaded pipeline processing. By default, the origin
                        uses a single thread for pipeline processing. You can increase the number of
                        threads to use to perform parallel processing of larger volumes of data. For
                        more information, see <xref
                            href="UDPMulti-Multithreaded.dita#concept_qv5_yjg_5bb"/>.</dd>
                    <dd>To use additional worker threads for parallel processing, increase the
                        Number of Worker Threads property.  </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
