<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_agf_5jv_sbb">
 <title>Windows Event Log</title>
 <shortdesc>The Windows Event Log origin reads data from a Microsoft Windows event log located on a
        Windows machine. The origin generates a record for each event in the log. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Windows Event Log
                    origin<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>Windows
                    Event Log</indexterm></indexterm>Use the Windows Event Log origin only in
            pipelines configured for edge execution mode. Run the pipeline on <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/company"/>
            <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Edge-Long"/>
                (<ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Edge-Short"
            />) installed on the Windows machine.</p>
        <p>For example, you might use the Windows Event Log origin in an edge pipeline to read logs
            from a web or application farm of Windows servers. You install <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Edge-Short"/> on
            each Windows machine that you want to read the logs from, and run the edge pipeline on
            each <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Edge-Short"
            /> installation. You design the edge pipeline to pass the log data to a <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            receiving pipeline that runs on <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/company"/>
            <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>.
            The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            /> receiving pipeline performs more complex processing on the data, and then writes the
            data to a big data system such as Hadoop. You can then analyze the data to detect
            security violations such as insider threats or illegal access to the Windows
            machines.</p>
        <p>When you configure the Windows Event Log origin, you specify the Windows log to read
            from. You also specify whether the origin reads all events in the log or whether it
            reads only new events that occur after the pipeline starts.</p>
        <p>When the pipeline stops, the Windows Event Log origin notes where it stops reading. When
            the pipeline starts again, the origin continues processing from where it stopped by
            default. You can reset the origin to process all requested files.</p>
        <p>For more information about installing <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/Edge-Short"/>,
            designing edge pipelines, and running and maintaining edge pipelines, see <xref
                href="../Edge_Mode/EdgePipelines_title.dita#concept_fyf_gkq_4bb"/>.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
