<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_svd_dvz_sq">
    <title>Previewing Multiple Stages</title>
    <shortdesc>You can preview data for a group of linked stages within a pipeline. You can also
        edit the preview data to see how the group processes your changes. Preview multiple stages
        to verify that the group processes data as expected. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p><indexterm>data preview<indexterm>previewing multiple
                stages</indexterm></indexterm>When you preview multiple stages, you select the first
                stage and the last stage in the group. The Preview panel then displays the input
                data and the output data for the group. The input data is the data that enters the
                first stage. The output data is the data that passes from the last stage. </p>
            <p>In the Preview panel, you can drill down to review the values for each record to
                determine if the group of stages transforms data as expected.</p>
        </context>
        <steps id="steps_vsq_4vz_sq">
            <step conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableSteps.dita#task_kzs_5vz_sq/StartPreview">
                <cmd/>
            </step>
            <step
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableSteps.dita#task_kzs_5vz_sq/DeletePreviewRecord">
                <cmd/>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To preview multiple stages, click <uicontrol>Multiple</uicontrol>.</cmd>
                <info>The Preview panel displays two lists of stages.<draft-comment author="Loretta"
                        >add screenshot with new labels</draft-comment></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>From the list on the left, select the first stage to use.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>In the list on the right, select the last stage to use.</cmd>
                <info>The Preview panel displays the input and output data for the group of stages.
                    You can drill down to review the details of each record.</info>
            </step>
            <step conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableSteps.dita#task_kzs_5vz_sq/EditingPData1"
                conrefend="../Reusable_Content/ReusableSteps.dita#task_kzs_5vz_sq/EditingPData2">
                <cmd/>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To revert all changes, click the <uicontrol>Revert Changes</uicontrol>
                    icon.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableSteps.dita#task_kzs_5vz_sq/RefreshPreview">
                <cmd/>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To return to previewing a single stage, click
                    <uicontrol>Single</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableSteps.dita#task_kzs_5vz_sq/RevertRefreshClose2">
                <cmd/>
            </step>
           
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
