<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_zbn_fpw_xy">
 <title>Configure Pipeline Permissions</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>pipeline permissions<indexterm>requirement for upgrading to
                    2.4.0.0</indexterm></indexterm><ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            version 2.4.0.0 is designed for multitenancy and enables you to share and grant
            permissions on pipelines. Permissions determine the access level that users and groups
            have on pipelines.</p>
        <p>In earlier versions of <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            without pipeline permissions, pipeline access is determined by roles. For example, any
            user with the Creator role could edit any pipeline. </p>
        <p>In version  2.4.0.0, roles are augmented with pipeline permissions. In addition to having
            the necessary role, users must also have the appropriate permissions to perform pipeline
            tasks. </p>
        <p>For example, to edit a pipeline in 2.4.0.0, a user with the Creator role must also have
            read and write permission on the pipeline. Without write permission, the user cannot
            edit the pipeline. Without read permission, the user cannot see the pipeline at all. It
            does not display in the list of available pipelines. </p>
        <p>
            <note>With pipeline permissions enabled, all upgraded pipelines are initially visible
                only to users with the Admin role and the pipeline owner - the user who created the
                pipeline. To enable other users to work with pipelines, have an Admin user configure
                the appropriate permissions for each pipeline. </note>
        </p>
        <p>In Data Collector version 2.5.0.0, pipeline permissions are disabled by default. To
            enable pipeline permissions, set the pipeline.access.control.enabled property to true in
            the Data Collector configuration file.</p>
        <note type="tip">You can configure pipeline permissions when permissions are disabled. Then,
            you can enable the pipeline permissions property after pipeline permissions are properly
            configured. </note>
        <p>For more information about roles and permissions, see <xref
                href="../Configuration/RolesandPermissions.dita#concept_k1r_prc_yy"/>. For details
            about configuring pipeline permissions, see <xref
                href="../Pipeline_Maintenance/SharingPipelines.dita#concept_jrg_1vy_wy"/>. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
