<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ws4_vq5_xv">
 <title>Upgrade a Basic Installation from the RPM Package</title>
 <shortdesc>When you upgrade a basic installation from the RPM package, the new version uses the
        default configuration, data, log, and resource directories. If the previous version used the
        default directories, the new version has access to the files created in the previous
        version.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>upgrade<indexterm>basic installation from
                RPM</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>basic install from
                    RPM<indexterm>upgrade</indexterm></indexterm>If the previous version used
            customized values for the directory environment variables, you must make the same
            customizations in the new version so that the new version can access the same files.</p>
        <note>If you installed additional drivers or developed custom stages, verify that those
            libraries are stored in a local directory external to the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            installation directory before you upgrade. That way, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            can still use the libraries after the upgrade.</note>
        <p>To upgrade a basic installation from the RPM package, perform the following steps:</p>
     <ol id="ol_x5s_qpr_5v">
         <li>Shut down the previous version.</li>
            <li>Back up the environment configuration file in the previous version.</li>
         <li>Install the new version.</li>
         <li>Manually update the environment configuration file.</li>
         <li>Manually update the configuration files.</li>
            <li>Install additional stage libraries as needed.</li>
         <li>Start the new version of <ph
             conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
         />.</li>
     </ol>
 </conbody>
</concept>
