<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ryn_4fk_5v">
 <title>Upgrade a Full or Basic Installation from the Tarball</title>
 <conbody>
     <p><indexterm>upgrade<indexterm>full installation from
                    tarball</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>upgrade<indexterm>basic installation
                    from tarball</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>basic install from
                    tarball<indexterm>upgrade</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>full install from
                    tarball<indexterm>upgrade</indexterm></indexterm>When you upgrade a full or
            basic installation from the tarball, you configure the new version to use a new
            configuration directory outside of the base <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            runtime directory. You then configure the new version to use the same data, log, and
            resource directories as the previous version. As a result, the new version has access to
            the pipeline, log, and resource files created in the previous version.</p>
        <p>To upgrade a full or basic installation from the tarball, perform the following
            steps:</p>
        <ol id="ol_x5s_qpr_5v">
            <li>If the previous version of <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> used a manual start, verify that directories in the previous version are outside
                of <codeph>$SDC_DIST</codeph>, the base <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> runtime directory.</li>
            <li>Shut down the previous version.</li>
            <li>Install the new version.</li>
            <li>Manually update the environment configuration file.</li>
            <li>Manually update the configuration files.</li>
            <li>For an upgrade of the basic installation, install additional stage libraries as
                needed.</li>
            <li>Start the new version of <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                />.</li>
        </ol>
 </conbody>
</concept>
