<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_yyv_v45_zw">
 <title>Update Vault Pipelines</title>
 <conbody>
        <p>With version 2.7.0.0, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            introduces a credential store API and credential expression language functions to access
            Hashicorp Vault secrets. </p>
        
        <p>In addition, the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            Vault integration now relies on Vault's App Role authentication backend. </p>
        <p>Previously, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            used Vault functions to access Vault secrets and relied on Vault's App ID authentication
            backend. StreamSets has deprecated the Vault functions, and Hashicorp has deprecated the
            App ID authentication backend. </p>
        <p>After upgrading, update pipelines that use Vault functions in one of the following
            ways:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Use the new credential store expression language functions (recommended)</dt>
                <dd>To use the new credential functions, install the Vault credential store stage
                    library and define the configuration properties used to connect to Vault. Then,
                    update each upgraded pipeline that includes stages using Vault functions to use
                    the new credential functions to retrieve the credential values.</dd>
                <dd>For details on using the Vault credential store system, see <xref
                        href="../Configuration/CredentialStores-Vault.dita#concept_s3y_dps_51b"
                    />.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Continue to use the deprecated Vault functions</dt>
                <dd>You can continue to use the deprecated Vault functions in pipelines. However,
                    the functions will be removed in a future release - so we recommend that you use
                    the credential functions as soon as possible.</dd>
                <dd>To continue to use the Vault functions, make the following changes after
                    upgrading:</dd>
                <dd>
                    <ul id="ul_emz_ltw_51b">
                        <li>Uncomment the single Vault EL property in the
                                <codeph>$SDC_CONF/vault.properties</codeph> file.</li>
                        <li>The remaining Vault configuration properties have been moved to the
                                <systemoutput>$SDC_CONF/credential-stores.properties</systemoutput>
                            file. The properties use the same name, with an added
                            "credentialStore.vault.config" prefix. Copy any values that you
                            customized in the previous <codeph>vault.properties</codeph> file into
                            the same property names in the
                                <codeph>credential-stores.properties</codeph> file.</li>
                        <li>Define the Vault Role ID and Secret ID that <ph
                                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                            /> uses to authenticate with Vault in the
                                <codeph>credential-stores.properties</codeph> file. Defining an App
                            ID for <ph
                                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                            /> is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.</li>
                    </ul>
                </dd>
                <dd>For details on using the Vault functions, see <xref
                        href="../Configuration/Vault-Overview.dita#concept_bmq_gl1_mw"/>.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
