<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_ijh_wtw_xy">
    <title>Working with Upgraded External Systems</title>
    <shortdesc>When an external system is upgraded to a new version, you can continue to use
        existing <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
        /> pipelines that connected to the previous version of the external system. You simply
        configure the pipelines to work with the upgraded system.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>For example, let's say that you have pipelines that read from Apache Kafka version
                0.9. You upgrade Apache Kafka to version 0.10. You can continue to use the existing
                pipelines after you configure the Kafka stages to use the Kafka version 0.10 stage
                library.</p>
            <p>Or, let's say that you develop a pipeline to write to Cloudera CDH version 5.8
                distribution of Hadoop. Then you export and import the pipeline into a <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> that has the Cloudera CDH version 5.9 stage library installed. You can continue
                to use the imported pipeline after you configure the appropriate stages to use the
                Cloudera CDH version 5.9 stage library.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Verify that the new stage library version is installed in <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    />.</cmd>
                <info>For a tarball installation, you can use the Package Manager or the command
                    line to view or install stage libraries. See <xref
                        href="../Installation/CoreInstall-Tarball-LibsPackageMgr.dita#concept_h5k_jbl_nx"
                    /> or <xref
                        href="../Installation/CoreInstall-Tarball-LibsCommand.dita#concept_bnl_n3n_s5"
                        />.<p>For an RPM installation, you must use the command line to view or
                        install stage libraries, as described in <xref
                            href="../Installation/CoreInstall_RPMAdditionalLibs.dita#concept_amc_cf3_dx"
                        />.</p></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Open each pipeline that connects to the upgraded external system.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab for each stage that connects to the
                    external system, select the new stage library version.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
