<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_spf_2gq_vz">
 <title>Working with Cloudera CDH 5.11 or Later</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>When you upgrade to Cloudera CDH version 5.11 or later from a previous version, you must update
            pipelines that set permissions on HDFS or Hive by modifying file mode bits with the
            minus or equals operators.</p>
        <p>Pipelines can modify file mode bits on HDFS or Hive with the following stage
                properties:<ul id="ul_xgb_ygq_vz">
                <li>The HDFS File Metadata executor Set Permissions property.</li>
                <li>The Hadoop FS destination whole file Permissions Expression whole file
                    property.</li>
            </ul>As of CDH 5.11, Cloudera changed how the minus and equals operators are evaluated
            as follows:<ul id="ul_j5b_vgq_vz">
                <li dir="ltr">
                    <p>In previous CDH releases, the minus operator (-) grants the specified
                        permissions. In the current release, it removes the specified permissions. </p>
                    <p>For example, in previous releases, <codeph>a-rw</codeph> grants read and
                        write permissions to all users. With CDH 5.11, it removes read and write
                        permissions from all users. </p>
                </li>
                <li dir="ltr">
                    <p>In earlier CDH releases, the equals operator (=) removes the specified
                        permissions. In the current release, it grants the specified permissions. </p>
                    <p>For example, in previous releases, <codeph>a=we</codeph> removes write and
                        execute permission from all users. With CDH 5.11, it grants write and
                        execute permission to all users. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>To ensure that file permissions are set as expected, update all properties in
            upgraded pipelines that modify file mode bits with the minus or equals operators.</p>
        <p>This behavior change is noted in the <xref
                href="https://www.cloudera.com/documentation/enterprise/release-notes/topics/cdh_rn_hdfs_ic.html"
                format="html" scope="external">Cloudera documentation</xref> regarding the fix for
            HADOOP-13508. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
