<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ivc_mll_2s">
 <title>Accessing Error Messages</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>error
          messages<indexterm>accessing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>troubleshooting<indexterm>accessing
          error messages</indexterm></indexterm>Informational and error messages display in
      different locations based on the type of information: </p>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Pipeline configuration issues</dt>
     <dd>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      UI provides guidance and error details as follows:<ul id="ul_ht3_cml_2s">
       <li>Issues found by implicit validation display in the Issues list.</li>
       <li>An error icon displays at the stage where the problem occurs or on the canvas for
        pipeline configuration issues. </li>
       <li>Issues discovered by explicit validation displays in a warning message on the
        canvas.</li>
      </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry product="SDC">
          <dt>Runtime error information</dt>
          <dd>You can view error information when you monitor a running pipeline. In the canvas, the
            pipeline displays error record counts for each stage generating error records. </dd>
          <dd>On the Errors tab, you can view error record statistics and the latest set of error
            records with error messages. If the error was produced by an exception, you can click
              <uicontrol>View Stack Trace</uicontrol> to view the full stack trace.</dd>
          <dd>
            <note>This information becomes unavailable when you stop the pipeline. To preserve
              information about error records, use the Error Records pipeline property to save error
              records.</note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Error record information</dt>
     <dd>You can use the Error Records pipeline properties to write error records and related
      details to<xref href="../Pipeline_Design/ErrorHandling-Pipeline.dita#concept_kgc_l4y_5r">
       another system for review</xref>. The information in the following record header attributes
      can help you determine the problem that occurred. For more information, see <xref
       href="../Pipeline_Design/InternalAttributes.dita#concept_itf_55z_dz"/>.</dd>
     <dd>For more information about error records and error record handling, see <xref
       href="../Pipeline_Design/ErrorHandling.dita#concept_pm4_txm_vq"/>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      errors</dt>
     <dd>You can view information and errors related to the general <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      functionality in the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> log. You
      can view or download the logs from the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> UI. <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/SDCDPM_SDCLogs"/></dd>
     <dd>By default, <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> logs
      messages at the INFO severity level. You can modify the log level to display messages at
      another severity level. <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/SDCDPM_LogLevel"/></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
