<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_zjl_nnl_2s">
 <title>Cluster Execution Mode </title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>troubleshooting<indexterm>cluster mode</indexterm></indexterm>Use the following tips
      for help with pipelines in cluster mode:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>I got the following validation error when configuring a cluster pipeline. What does it
            mean?</dt>
          <dd>
            <codeblock>Validation_0071 - Stage '&lt;stage id>' does not support 'Standalone' execution mode</codeblock>
          </dd>
          <dd>This message can appear when you include a non-cluster origin in a cluster pipeline.
            You can use the cluster version of the Kafka Consumer and the Hadoop FS origin in a
            cluster pipeline. </dd>
          <dd>The message can also appear if you choose the Write to File option for  pipeline error
            handling. Write to File is not supported for cluster mode. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Why isn't the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            reading data from my new Kafka partition?</dt>
          <dd>If you create a new partition in the Kafka topic, to launch a new <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            worker to read from the partition, you need to restart the pipeline.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>My pipeline fails to start with the following error: </dt>
          <dd><codeblock>Pipeline Status: START_ERROR: Unexpected error starting pipeline:java.lang.IllegalStateException: 
Timed out after waiting 121 seconds for cluster application to start. Submit command is not alive.</codeblock>Check
            the <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            /> log for more information. It's possible that the Spark on YARN client configuration
            is not in place, the installation is out of date, or the node being used is not a
            gateway node.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>My pipeline fails to start with the following error: </dt>
          <dd>
            <codeblock>Pipeline Status: START_ERROR: IO Error while trying to start the pipeline: java.io.IOException: 
Kerberos Error: No valid credentials provided (Mechanism level: Failed to find any Kerberos tgt)]</codeblock>
          </dd>
          <dd>It's likely that the cluster is configured to use Kerberos, but the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> is
            not configured to use Kerberos. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/SDCDPM-Kerberos"
            /></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>My pipeline stopped unexpectedly.</dt>
          <dd>Check the Spark Application Master logs in the YARN Resource Manager UI for more
            information about the problem.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Why does my pipeline take so long to start?</dt>
          <dd>The start time for a pipeline can vary based on how busy the YARN cluster is.
            Typically, a cluster pipeline should start in 30-90 seconds. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
