<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tz4_fhm_js">
 <title>Data Preview </title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>troubleshooting<indexterm>data preview</indexterm></indexterm>Use the following tips
   for help with data preview:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why isn't the Preview icon enabled?</dt>
     <dd>You can preview data after you connect all stages in the pipeline and configure required
            properties. You can use any valid value as a placeholder for required properties.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why doesn't the data preview show any data?</dt>
     <dd>If data preview doesn't show any data, one of the following issues might have occurred:<ul
       id="ul_r5n_jgm_2s">
       <li>The origin might not be configured correctly. <p>In the Preview panel, check the
                  Configuration tab for the origin for related issues. For some origins, you can use
                  Raw Preview to see if the configuration information is correct.</p></li>
       <li>The origin might not have any data at the moment. <p>Some origins, such as Directory,
                  File Tail, and Kafka Consumer, can display processed data for data preview.
                  However, most origins require incoming data to enable data preview. </p></li>
      </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why am I only getting 10 records to preview when I'm asking for more?</dt>
     <dd>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      maximum preview batch size overrides the data preview batch size. The <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> default is
      10 records. </dd>
     <dd>When you request data preview, you can request up to the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> preview
       batch size, or you can increase the <b>preview.maxBatchSize</b> property in the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
       configuration file, <codeph>$SDC_CONF/sdc.properties</codeph>. </dd>
    </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>In data preview, I edited stage configuration and clicked Run with Changes, but I
            don't see any change in the data.</dt>
          <dd>This might happen if the configuration change is in the origin. Run with Changes uses
            the existing preview data. To see how changes to origin configuration affects preview
            data, use Refresh Preview. </dd>
        </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
