<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mth_cjm_js">
 <title>Kafka Producer</title>
 <conbody>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Can the Kafka Producer create topics?</dt>
          <dd>The Kafka Producer can create a topic when all of the following are true:<ul
              id="ul_j4q_25y_3r">
              <li>You configure the Kafka Producer to write to a topic name that does not
                exist.</li>
              <li>At least one of the Kafka brokers defined for the Kafka Producer has the
                auto.create.topics.enable property enabled.</li>
              <li>The broker with the enabled property is up and available when the Kafka Producer
                looks for the topic.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>A pipeline that writes to Kafka keeps failing and restarting in an endless cycle.</dt>
          <dd>This can happen when the pipeline tries to write message to Kafka 0.8 that is longer
            than the Kafka maximum message size. </dd>
          <dd>Workaround: Reconfigure Kafka brokers to allow larger messages or ensure that incoming
            records are within the configured limit. <draft-comment author="Loretta">This replaces a
              release notes known limitation for SDC-2438.</draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>The Kafka Producer with Kerberos enabled cannot connect to the HDP 2.3 distribution of
          Kafka. </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>When enabling Kerberos, by default, HDP 2.3 sets the
              <uicontrol>security.inter.broker.protocol</uicontrol> Kafka broker configuration
            property to <codeph>PLAINTEXTSASL</codeph>, which is not supported.</p>
          <p>To correct the issue, set <uicontrol>security.inter.broker.protocol</uicontrol> to
              PLAINTEXT.<draft-comment author="Loretta">This is replacing a RN known limitation for
              SDC-1731</draft-comment></p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </conbody>
</concept>
