<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_a3w_z3m_js">
 <title>Cassandra</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why is the pipeline failing entire batches when only a few records have a problem?</dt>
     <dd>Due to Cassandra requirements, when you write to a Cassandra cluster, batches are atomic.
      This means than an error in a one or more records causes the entire batch to fail.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why is all of my data being sent to error? Every batch is failing.</dt>
     <dd>When every batch fails, you might have a data type mismatch. Cassandra requires the data
      type of the data to exactly match the data type of the Cassandra column. </dd>
     <dd>To determine the issue, check the error messages associated with the error records. If you
      see a message like the following, you have a data type mismatch. The following error message
      indicates that data type mismatch is for Integer data being unsuccessfully written to a Varchar
      column:
      <codeblock>CASSANDRA_06 - Could not prepare record 'sdk:': 
Invalid type for value 0 of CQL type varchar, expecting class java.lang.String but class java.lang. 
Integer provided`</codeblock></dd>
     <dd>To correct the problem, you might use a Field Type Converter processor to convert field
      data types. In this case, you would convert the integer data to string.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
