<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_oqc_431_hy">
 <title>No Suitable Driver</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>When <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            cannot find the JDBC driver for a stage, the following error message
            displays:<codeblock>JDBC_00 - Cannot connect to specified database: com.streamsets.pipeline.api.StageException:
JDBC_06 - Failed to initialize connection pool: java.sql.SQLException: No suitable driver</codeblock></p>
        <p>Verify that you have followed the instructions to install additional drivers, as
            explained in <xref href="../Configuration/ExternalLibs.dita#concept_pdv_qlw_ft"
                product="SDC"/><ph product="DPM"><xref
                    href="https://streamsets.com/documentation/datacollector/latest/help/#Configuration/ExternalLibs.html%23concept_pdv_qlw_ft"
                    format="html" scope="external">Install External Libraries</xref> in the <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> documentation</ph>.</p>
        <p>You can also use these additional tips to help resolve the issue:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>The JDBC connection string is not correct.</dt>
                <dd>The <uicontrol>JDBC Connection String</uicontrol> property for the stage must
                    include the <codeph>jdbc:</codeph> prefix. For example, a Postgres connection
                    string might be <codeph>jdbc:postgresql://&lt;database host>/&lt;database
                        name></codeph>. </dd>
                <dd>Check your database documentation for the required connection string format. For
                    example, if you are using a non-standard port, you must specify it in the
                    connection string. </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>The JDBC driver is not stored in the correct directory.</dt>
                <dd>You must store the JDBC driver in the following directory: <codeph>&lt;external
                        directory>/streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib/lib/</codeph>.</dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>For example, assuming that you defined the external directory as
                            <codeph>/opt/sdc-extras</codeph>, store the JDBC JAR files in
                            <codeph>/opt/sdc-extras/streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib/lib/</codeph>.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>STREAMSETS_LIBRARIES_EXTRA_DIR is not set correctly.</dt>
                <dd>You must set the <codeph>STREAMSETS_LIBRARIES_EXTRA_DIR</codeph> environment
                    variable to tell <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> where the JDBC drivers and other additional libraries are located. The
                    location should be external to the Data Collector installation directory. </dd>
                <dd>For example, to use <codeph>/opt/sdc-extras</codeph> as the external directory
                    for additional libraries, then you would set
                        <codeph>STREAMSETS_LIBRARIES_EXTRA_DIR</codeph> as follows:
                    <codeblock>export STREAMSETS_LIBRARIES_EXTRA_DIR="/opt/sdc-extras/"</codeblock></dd>
                <dd>
                    <p
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/EnvFileLocation"/>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>The security policy is not set.</dt>
                <dd>You must grant permission for code in the external directory. Ensure that the
                        <codeph>$SDC_CONF/sdc-security.policy</codeph> file contains the following
                    lines:
                    <codeblock>// user-defined external directory
grant codebase "file://&lt;external directory>-" {
  permission java.security.AllPermission;
};</codeblock></dd>
                <dd>For
                    example:<codeblock>// user-defined external directory
grant codebase "file:///opt/sdc-extras/-" {
  permission java.security.AllPermission;
};</codeblock></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>The JDBC driver does not support auto-loading.</dt>
                <dd>Even if the connection string is correctly configured, the JDBC driver JAR file
                    is in the correct location, the environment variable is correctly set, and
                    you've set the correct security policy, the JDBC driver might not correctly
                    support <xref
                        href="http://archive.oreilly.com/pub/a/onjava/2006/08/02/jjdbc-4-enhancements-in-java-se-6.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">JDBC 4.0 auto-loading</xref>. </dd>
                <dd>If you have checked all of the above, and you are still seeing the "No suitable
                    driver" error message, add the class name for the driver in the <uicontrol>JDBC
                        Class Driver Name</uicontrol> property in the <uicontrol>Legacy
                        Drivers</uicontrol> tab for the stage. </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>The sdc user does not have correct permissions on the JDBC driver.</dt>
                <dd>When you run <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> as a service, the default system user named <codeph>sdc</codeph> is used to
                    start the service. The user must have read access to the JDBC driver and all
                    directories in its path.</dd>
                <dd>To verify the permissions, run the following
                    command:<codeblock>sudo -u sdc file &lt;external directory>/streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib/lib/&lt;driver jar file></codeblock></dd>
                <dd>For example, let's assume that you are using an external directory of
                        <codeph>/opt/sdc-extras</codeph> and the MySQL JDBC driver. If you receive
                    the following output when you run the command, then the <codeph>sdc</codeph>
                    user does not have read or execute access on one or more of the directories in
                    the
                    path:<codeblock>/opt/sdc-extras/streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib/lib/mysql-connector-java-5.1.40-bin.jar: cannot open `/opt/sdc-extras/streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib/lib/mysql-connector-java-5.1.40-bin.jar' (Permission denied)</codeblock></dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>To resolve this issue, identify the relevant directories and grant the
                            <codeph>sdc</codeph> user read and execute access on those directories.
                        For example, run the following command to grant the user access on the root
                        of the external
                        directory:<codeblock>chmod 755 /opt/sdc-extras</codeblock></p>
                </dd>
                <dd>If you receive the following output when you run the command, then the
                        <codeph>sdc</codeph> user does not have read permission on the JDBC
                    driver:<codeblock>/opt/sdc-extras/streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib/lib/mysql-connector-java-5.1.40-bin.jar: regular file, no read permission</codeblock></dd>
                <dd>To resolve this issue, run the following command to grant the user read access
                    to the
                    driver:<codeblock>chmod 644 /opt/sdc-extras/streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib/lib/mysql-connector-java-5.1.40-bin.jar</codeblock></dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
