<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_f5z_s3q_qbb">
 <title>SQL Server CDC Client</title>
 <conbody>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>A pipeline with the SQL Server CDC Client origin cannot establish a connection.
                    The pipeline fails with the following error:</dt>
                <dd>
                    <codeblock>java.sql.SQLTransientConnectionException: HikariPool-3 - 
   Connection is not available, request timed out after 30004ms.
at com.zaxxer.hikari.pool.HikariPool.getConnection(HikariPool.java:213)
at com.zaxxer.hikari.pool.HikariPool.getConnection(HikariPool.java:163)
at com.zaxxer.hikari.HikariDataSource.getConnection(HikariDataSource.
  java:85)
at com.streamsets.pipeline.lib.jdbc.multithread.ConnectionManager.
  getNewConnection(ConnectionManager.java:45)
at com.streamsets.pipeline.lib.jdbc.multithread.ConnectionManager.
  getConnection(ConnectionManager.java:57)
at com.streamsets.pipeline.stage.origin.jdbc.cdc.sqlserver.
  SQLServerCDCSource.getCDCTables(SQLServerCDCSource.java:181)</codeblock>
                </dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>This can occur when the origin is configured to use a certain number of
                        threads, but the thread pool is not set high enough. On the Advanced tab,
                        check the settings for the Maximum Pool Size and Minimum Idle Connections
                        properties. </p>
                </dd>
                <dd>When using <xref
                        href="../Origins/SQLServerChange-Multithread.dita#concept_ofh_gns_r1b"
                        >multithreaded processing</xref>, you want these properties to be set to
                    greater than or equal to the value of the Number of Threads property on the JDBC
                    tab.</dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>Also, <xref
                            href="../Origins/SQLServerCDC-LateTables.dita#concept_nxm_1lp_qbb"
                            >allowing late table processing</xref> requires the origin to use an
                        additional background thread. When you enable processing late tables, you
                        should set the Maximum Pool Size and Minimum Idle Connections properties to
                        one thread more than the Number of Threads property.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>After dropping and recreating a table, the origin won't seem to read the data in
                    the table. What's the problem?</dt>
                <dd>The SQL Server CDC Client origin stores the offset for every table that it
                    processes to track its progress. If you drop a table and recreate it using the
                    same name, the origin assumes it is the same table and uses the last-saved
                    offset for the table. </dd>
                <dd>If you need the origin to process data earlier than the last-saved offset, you
                    might need to <xref
                        href="../Pipeline_Maintenance/ResettingTheOrigin.dita#task_hdg_j1s_5q">reset
                        the origin</xref>. </dd>
                <dd>Note that after you reset the origin, the origin drops all stored offsets. And
                    when you restart the pipeline, the origin processes all available data in the
                    specified tables. You cannot reset the origin for a particular table.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
