<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ggx_s23_ks">
 <title>JDBC Origins</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>My MySQL JDBC Driver 5.0 fails to validate the query in my JBDC Query Consumer origin. </dt>
     <dd>This can occur when you use a LIMIT clause in your query. </dd>
     <dd>Workaround: Upgrade to version 5.1.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>I'm using a JDBC origin to read MySQL data. Why are datetime value set to zero being
      treated like error records?</dt>
     <dd>MySQL treats invalid dates as an exception, so both the JDBC Query Consumer and the JDBC
      Multitable Consumer create error records for invalid dates. </dd>
     <dd>You can override this behavior by setting a JDBC configuration property in the origin. Add
      the zeroDateTimeBehavior property and set the value to "convertToNull".</dd>
     <dd>For more information about this and other MySQL-specific JDBC configuration properties, see
       <xref
       href="http://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/en/connector-j-reference-configuration-properties.html"
       format="html" scope="external"
       >http://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/en/connector-j-reference-configuration-properties.html</xref>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>A pipeline using the JDBC Query Consumer origin keeps stopping with the following
      error:</dt>
     <dd>
      <codeblock>JDBC_77 &lt;db error message> attempting to execute query '&lt;query>'. Giving up 
after &lt;error count> errors as per stage configuration. First error: &lt;first db error>.</codeblock>
     </dd>
     <dd>This occurs when the origin cannot successfully execute a query. To handle transient
      connection or network errors, try increasing the value for the Number of Retries Upon Query
      Error property on the JDBC tab of the origin. </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
