<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_fwl_5cl_gs">
 <title>Origins</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>troubleshooting<indexterm>origins</indexterm></indexterm>Use the following tips for
   help with origin stages and systems:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>My MySQL JDBC Driver 5.0 fails to validate the query in my JBDC origin. </dt>
     <dd>This can occur when you use a LIMIT clause in your query. Workaround: Upgrade to version
      5.1.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>I'm using the JDBC origin to read MySQL data. Why are datetime value set to zero being
      treated like error records?</dt>
     <dd>MySQL treats invalid dates as an exception, so the JDBC origin creates error records for
      invalid dates. You can override this behavior by setting a JDBC configuration property in the
      JDBC origin. Add the <uicontrol>zeroDateTimeBehavior</uicontrol> property and set the value to
      "convertToNull".</dd>
     <dd>For more information about this and other MySQL-specific JDBC configuration properties, see
       <xref
       href="http://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/en/connector-j-reference-configuration-properties.html"
       format="html" scope="external"
       >http://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/en/connector-j-reference-configuration-properties.html</xref>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why isn't my pipeline reading existing data from my Kafka topic? </dt>
     <dd>By default, the Kafka Consumer reads data written to the topic after you start the
      pipeline. Records already in the topic are ignored. </dd>
     <dd>To read the oldest unread data in a topic, add the <uicontrol>auto.offset.reset</uicontrol>
      Kafka Configuration property to the origin and set it to <uicontrol>smallest</uicontrol>.
       <note>If you already started the pipeline or ran a preview without this option, the offset
       has already been committed. To read the oldest unread data in a topic, set
        <uicontrol>auto.offset.reset</uicontrol> to <uicontrol>smallest</uicontrol> and then
       temporarily change the Consumer Group name to a different value. Run data preview. Then,
       change the Consumer Group back to the correct value and start the pipeline.</note></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
