<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ay2_w1l_2s">
 <title>Performance</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>troubleshooting<indexterm>performance</indexterm></indexterm>Use the following tips
   for help with performance:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why is my batch size only 1000 records when I configured my origin for larger batches?</dt>
     <dd>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      maximum batch size overrides the maximum batch size configured in origins. The <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> default is
      1000 records. </dd>
     <dd>When you configure the origin batch size, you can request up to the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> maximum
      batch size, or you can increase the <b>production.maxBatchSize</b> property in the
       <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
       configuration file, <codeph>$SDC_CONF/sdc.properties</codeph>. </dd>
    </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>How can I decrease the delay between reads from the origin system?</dt>
          <dd>A long delay can occur between reads from the origin system when a pipeline reads
            records faster than it can process them or write them to the destination system. Because
            a pipeline processes one batch at a time, the pipeline must wait until a batch is
            committed to the destination system before reading the next batch, preventing the
            pipeline from reading at a steady rate. Reading data at a steady rate provides better
            performance than reading sporadically.</dd>
          <dd>If you cannot increase the throughput for the processors or destination, limit the
            rate at which the pipeline reads records from the origin system. Configure the
              <uicontrol>Rate Limit</uicontrol> property for the pipeline to define the maximum
            number of records that the pipeline can read in a second.</dd>
        </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
          <dt>When I try to start one or more pipelines, I receive an error that not enough threads
            are available.</dt>
          <dd>By default, <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> can
            run approximately 22 standalone pipelines at the same time. If you run a larger number
            of standalone pipelines at the same time, you might receive the following
            error:<codeblock>CONTAINER_0166 - Cannot start pipeline '&lt;pipeline name>' as there are not enough threads available</codeblock></dd>
          <dd>To resolve this error, increase the value of the <b>runner.thread.pool.size</b>
            property in the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            configuration file, <codeph>$SDC_CONF/sdc.properties</codeph>.</dd>
          <dd>For more information, see <xref
              href="../Configuration/RunningMultiplePipelines.dita#task_nkc_ydl_bw" product="SDC"
              /><ph product="DPM"><xref
                href="https://streamsets.com/documentation/datacollector/latest/help/#Configuration/DCConfig.html%23task_nkc_ydl_bw"
                format="html" scope="external">Running Multiple Concurrent Pipelines</xref> in the
                <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
              /> documentation</ph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
    <dlentry product="SDC">
          <dt>How can I tell what's slowing down my pipeline?</dt>
          <dd>Review the information available in the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> UI
            in Monitor mode. Charts provide information about the record count, record throughput,
            and batch throughput for the pipeline. To determine where processing slows, you can
            click each stage to view the count and throughput details for the stage.</dd>
          <dd>If the origin is the issue, you might tune the batch size or batch wait time
            properties or adjust related properties in the origin system. If the destinations cause
            the problem, try adjusting any performance-related properties in the destination or
            related properties in the destination system.</dd>
          <dd>If a processor causes the problem, you might take a snapshot of the pipeline to review
            how data passes through the pipeline and consider options for streamlining processing.
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>How can I improve the general pipeline performance? </dt>
     <dd>You might improve performance by adjusting the batch size used by the pipeline. The batch
      size determines how much data passes through the pipeline at one time. By default, the batch
      size is 1000 records. </dd>
     <dd>You might adjust the batch size based on the size of the records or the speed of their
      arrival. For example, if your records are extremely big, you might reduce the batch size to
      increase the processing speed. Or if the records are small and arrive quickly, you might
      increase the batch size.</dd>
     <dd>Experiment with the batch size and review the results<ph product="SDC"> in Monitor
              mode</ph>. </dd>
     <dd>To change the batch size, configure the <b>production.maxBatchSize</b> property in the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
       configuration file, <codeph>$SDC_CONF/sdc.properties</codeph>. </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
