<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vxd_tsm_tq">
  <title>Pipeline Basics</title>
  <shortdesc/>
  <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>Data
          Collector<indexterm>troubleshooting</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>troubleshooting<indexterm>pipeline
          basics</indexterm></indexterm>Use the following tips to help you with pipeline basics.</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>When I go to the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            console, I get a "Webpage not available" error message.</dt>
          <dd>The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> is
            not running. Start the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            />.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Why isn't the Start icon enabled? </dt>
          <dd>You can start a pipeline when it is valid. Use the Issues icon to review the list of
            issues in your pipeline. When you resolve the issues, the Start icon becomes
            enabled.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Why doesn't the Select Fields with Preview Data option work? No preview data
            displays.</dt>
          <dd>Select Fields with Preview Data works when the pipeline is valid for data preview.
            Make sure all stages are connected. You might also need to enter temporary values for
            required properties to enable data preview.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Sometimes I get a list of available fields and sometimes I don't. What's up with
            that?</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline can display a list of available fields when the pipeline is valid for
            data preview. Make sure all stages are connected. You might also need to enter temporary
            values for required properties to enable data preview.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <draft-comment author="Loretta">From Hari: Output data is not as expected [some fields are
      missing or have unexpected value or even type [expected integer but got string]].Trouble shoot
      by previewing and stepping through stages [data debugging :)].</draft-comment>
    <section>
      <title>Data Preview</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Why isn't the Data Preview icon enabled?</dt>
          <dd>You can preview data after you connect all stages in the pipeline and configure
            required properties. You can use any valid value as a placeholder. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Why doesn't the data preview show any data?</dt>
          <dd>If data preview doesn't show any data, one of the following issues might have
              occurred:<ul id="ul_r5n_jgm_2s">
              <li>The origin might not be configured correctly. In the Preview panel, check the
                Issues tab of the origin stage for related issues.</li>
              <li>The origin might not have any data at the moment. </li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Why am I only getting 10 records to preview when I'm asking for more?</dt>
          <dd>The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            maximum preview batch size overrides the data preview batch size. The <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            default is 10 records. </dd>
          <dd>When you request data preview, you can request up to the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            preview batch size, or you can increase the <codeph>preview.maxBatchSize</codeph>
            property in the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            configuration file. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
