<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vxd_tsm_tq">
 <title>Troubleshooting</title>
 <shortdesc>We hope the following tips might help you with using the <ph
   conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>. If you have
  suggestions for additional troubleshooting items, please send them to
  docs@streamsets.com.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>When I go to the<ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> window, I
      get a "Webpage not available" error message.</dt>
     <dd>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      is not running. Start the <ph
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why isn't the Data Preview icon enabled.</dt>
     <dd>You can preview data after you configure the required fields for the origin. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why doesn't the data preview show any data?</dt>
     <dd>If data preview doesn't show any data, one of the following issues might have occurred:<ul
       id="ul_uhn_pz2_xq">
       <li>The origin might not be configured correctly. In the Preview panel, check the Issues tab
        of the origin stage for related issues.</li>
       <li>The origin might not have any data at the moment.</li>
      </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why can't I edit preview data?</dt>
     <dd>When you can edit preview data in the following locations: <ul
       conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ul_EditPreview"
       id="ul_ojz_yhn_tq">
       <li/>
      </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why isn't the Start icon enabled? </dt>
     <dd>You can start a pipeline when it is valid. Use the Issues icon to review the list of issues
      in your pipeline. When you resolve the issues, the Start icon becomes enabled.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Why doesn't the Select Fields with Preview Data option work? No preview data displays.</dt>
     <dd>Select Fields with Preview Data can provide preview data when the pipeline is valud for
      data preview. Make sure all stages are connected. You might also need to enter temporary
      values for required properties to enable data preview.</dd>
    </dlentry>

   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
