<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cvc_skd_br">
 <title>Directory Templates</title>
 <shortdesc>The <ph keyref="stage"/> destination uses directory templates to create output and late record
  directories. The destination writes records to the directories based on the configured time
  basis.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Hadoop FS destination<indexterm>directory
    templates</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>directory templates<indexterm>Hadoop
    FS</indexterm></indexterm>You can use a mix of constants, field values, and datetime variables
   in a directory template. You can use the <codeph>every</codeph> function to create new
   directories at regular intervals based on seconds or minutes. You can also use the
    <codeph>record:valueOrDefault</codeph> function to use field values or a default in the
   directory template. </p>
  <p>For example, the following directory template creates output directories for event data based
   on the state and timestamp of a record with hours as the smallest unit of measure, creating a new
   directory every twelve
   hours:<codeblock> /outputfiles/${record:valueOrDefault("/State", "unknown")}/${YY()}-${MM()}-${DD()}-${every(12,hh())}</codeblock></p>
  <p>You can use the following elements in a directory template:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Constants</dt>
     <dd>You can use any constant, such as "output" or "lateRecords."</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Datetime Variables</dt>
     <dd><ph keyref="stage"/> creates directories as needed, based on the smallest datetime variable
      that you use. For example, if the smallest variable is hours, then the directories are created
      for every hour of the day that receives output records.</dd>
     <dd>You can use the following datetime variables in a directory template:<ul id="ul_s2x_5qq_1r">
       <li>${YYYY()} - four digit year</li>
       <li>${YY()} - two digit year</li>
       <li>${MM()} - two digit month</li>
       <li>${DD()} - two digit date</li>
       <li>${hh()} - two digit hour</li>
       <li>${mm()} - two digit minute</li>
       <li>${ss()} - two digit second</li>
      </ul></dd>
     <dd>When you define a directory template, use all of the datetime variables between one of the
      year variables and the smallest variable that you want to use. For example, to create
      directories on a daily basis, you might use one of the following datetime variable
      progressions:</dd>
     <dd>
      <codeblock>${YYYY()}-${MM()}-${DD()}
${YY()}_${MM()}_${DD()}</codeblock>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>every() function</dt>
     <dd>You can use the <codeph>every()</codeph> function in a directory template to create
      directories at regular intervals based on minutes or seconds. The intervals should be a
      submultiple or integer factor of 60. For example, you can create directories every 15 minutes
      or 30 seconds. </dd>
     <dd>Use the <codeph>every()</codeph> function to replace the smallest datetime variable used in
      the template.</dd>
     <dd>For example, the following directory template creates directories every 5
      minutes:<codeblock>/HDFS_output/${YYYY()}-${MM()}-${DD()}-${hh()}-${every(5,mm())}</codeblock></dd>
     <dd>For details about the <codeph>every()</codeph> function, see <xref
       href="../Expression_Language/MiscFunctions.dita#concept_ddw_ld1_1s"/>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>record:valueOrDefault function</dt>
     <dd>You can use the following expression to use the value of a field and the specified default
      value if the field does not exist:
      <codeblock>${record:valueOrDefault("/&lt;field name>", &lt;default value>)}</codeblock></dd>
     <dd>For example, the following directory template creates a directory based on the product
      field every day, and if the product field is empty, uses Misc in the directory path:
      <codeblock>/${record:valueOrDefault("/Product", "Misc")}/${YY()}-${MM()}-${DD()}</codeblock></dd>
     <dd>This template might create the following
      paths:<codeblock>/Shirts/2015-07-31 
/Misc/2015-07-31</codeblock></dd>
     <dd>For a tip on how to replace null values, see <xref
       href="../Expression_Language/RecordFunctions.dita#concept_p1z_ggv_1r"/>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
