<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_v4p_hh5_xz">
 <title>Conditions</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Email executor<indexterm>conditions for sending
                    email</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>conditions<indexterm>Email
                    executor</indexterm></indexterm>You can configure the Email executor to send an
            email based on a condition, such as the type of event to trigger the email. If you omit
            a condition, the Email executor sends the email each time it receives an event.</p>
        <p>For example, say you have a pipeline that uses a JDBC Query Consumer origin. The origin
            generates several types of events: one for query success, one for query failure, and one
            for the processing of all available data. To have the Email executor send a email only
            when a query fails, you use the event type in the email condition, as
            follows:<codeblock>${record:eventType() == 'jdbc-query-failure'} </codeblock></p>
        <p>The event type is stored in the record header attribute of every event record. The
            expression language provides the <codeph>record:eventType()</codeph> function to return
            the event type for event records.</p>
        <p>To determine the event type to use on the right side of the condition, review the <xref
                href="../Origins/JDBCConsumer-EventRecord.dita#concept_rzl_s1t_kz">"Event Record"
                documentation for the stage</xref>. In this case, jdbc-query-failure is the event
            type for JDBC Query Consumer query failure events.</p>
        <p>
            <note type="tip">By using conditions, you can route multiple event streams to the same
                Email executor and configure all event-driven email notification in the executor.
                For an example, see <xref
                    href="../Event_Handling/CaseStudy-SendEmail.dita#concept_t2t_lp5_xz"/>.</note>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
