<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_stt_2lk_fx">
 <title>Executors</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>executors<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>An executor stage triggers a
            task when it receives an event. Executors do not write or store events. </p>
        <p>Use executors as part of a dataflow trigger in an event stream to perform event-driven,
            pipeline-related tasks, such as moving a fully-written file when a destination closes
            it. </p>
        <p>For more information about the event framework, see <xref
                href="../Event_Handling/EventFramework-Overview.dita#concept_cph_5h4_lx"/>.</p>
        <p>You can use the following executors in a pipeline:<ul id="ul_htl_4dr_mx">
                <li><xref href="AmazonS3.dita#concept_mvh_bnm_f1b">Amazon S3</xref> - Creates new
                    Amazon S3 objects for the specified content or adds tags to existing Amazon S3
                    objects.</li>
                <li><xref href="Email.dita#concept_sjs_sfp_qz">Email</xref> - Sends custom email to
                    the configured recipients upon receiving an event.</li>
                <li><xref href="HDFSMetadata.dita#concept_wgj_slk_fx">HDFS File Metadata</xref> -
                    Changes file metadata, creates an empty file, or removes a file or directory in
                    HDFS or a local file system upon receiving an event record.</li>
                <li><xref href="HiveQuery.dita#concept_kjw_llk_fx">Hive Query</xref> - Runs
                    user-defined Hive or Impala queries upon receiving an event record. </li>
                <li><xref href="JDBCQuery.dita#concept_j3r_gcv_sx">JDBC Query</xref> - Runs a
                    user-defined SQL query upon receiving an event record.</li>
                <li><xref href="MapRFSFileMeta.dita#concept_ohx_r5h_z1b">MapR FS File
                        Metadata</xref> - Changes file metadata, creates an empty file, or removes a
                    file or directory in MapR FS upon receiving an event record.</li>
                <li><xref href="MapReduce.dita#concept_bj2_zlk_fx">MapReduce</xref> - Starts the
                    specified MapReduce job upon receiving an event record. </li>
                <li><xref href="PipelineFinisher.dita#concept_qzm_l4r_kz">Pipeline Finisher</xref> -
                    Stops and transitions the pipeline to a Finished state upon receiving an event
                    record.</li>
                <li><xref href="Shell.dita#concept_jsr_zpw_tz">Shell</xref> - Executes a shell
                    script upon receiving an event record.</li>
                <li><xref href="Spark.dita#concept_cvy_vxb_1z">Spark</xref> - Starts the specified
                    Spark application upon receiving an event record.</li>
            </ul></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
