<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wgj_slk_fx">
 <title>HDFS File Metadata Executor</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>executors<indexterm>HDFS File Metadata</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>HDFS File
                Metadata executor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The HDFS File Metadata
            executor changes file metadata or creates an empty file each time it receives an event.
            You cannot perform both tasks in the same executor. To perform both tasks, use an
            additional executor. </p>
        <p>Use the HDFS File Metadata executor as part of an event stream. For example, you might
            use the executor to move a file or change file permissions after it receives a file
            closure event from the Hadoop FS destination.</p>
        <p>When changing file metadata, the HDFS File Metadata executor can change the following
            file metadata at the same time:<ul id="ul_gym_xw3_rx">
                <li>File name</li>
                <li>File location</li>
                <li>File owner and group</li>
                <li>File permissions</li>
                <li>Access control lists (ACLs)</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>When changing metadata, you configure an expression that represents the location and name
            of the file to process, and then specify the changes you want to perform. When creating
            an empty file, you specify the output location for the file, and can optionally specify
            the owner, permissions, and ACLs for the file. </p>
     <p>When necessary, you can enable Kerberos authentication and specify an HDFS user. You can
         also use HDFS configuration files and add other HDFS configuration properties as needed. </p>
     <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/p-Executor-EventXref"></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
