<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_fmb_rbj_rx">
 <title>File Path</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>HDFS File Metadata executor<indexterm>file path</indexterm></indexterm>You
            specify the file path when you want the executor to change file metadata or create an
            empty file. <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Changing file metadata</dt>
                    <dd>To change file metadata, specify an expression for the File Path property
                        that provides an absolute path to the files you want to use. </dd>
                    <dd>Use the default file path expression,
                            <codeph>${record:value('/filepath')}</codeph>, to update output files
                        closed by the Hadoop FS, Local FS, and MapR FS destinations. The file
                        closure event records generated by these destinations include a filepath
                        field that contains the location and name of the closed output files.</dd>
                    <dd>To update whole files that the Hadoop FS, Local FS, and MapR FS destinations
                        have completed streaming, use the following
                        expression:<codeblock>${record:value('/targetFileInfo/path')}</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p>The whole file processed event records from these destinations include a
                            /targetFileInfo/path field that contains the location and name of the
                            processed whole files. </p>
                        <p>For more information about the event records generated by destinations,
                            see "Event Record" in the destination documentation. </p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Creating an empty file</dt>
                    <dd>To create an empty file, specify an expression for the File Path property
                        that provides an absolute path to the location where you want the file
                        created. When you create an empty file, you also configure a file name
                        property for the new files.</dd>
                    <dd>
                        <note
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/FileMetadataEx-BadDefault"
                        />
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
