<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_uwh_vck_rx">
    <title>Changing the File Name or Location</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>MapR FS File Metadata executor<indexterm>changing file names and
                    locations</indexterm></indexterm>When using the MapR FS File Metadata executor
            to change file metadata, you can change the name or location of files after they close.
            When you specify new file names and locations, you can enter constants or expressions.
            Use any expression that evaluates to the values that you want to use. </p>
        <p>When needed, you can use the file functions in expressions to use part of the existing
            filepath. File functions can return any part of a path, file name, or extension. <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Example for moving files</dt>
                    <dd>Say you have the MapR FS destination writing JSON files to the following
                        directory
                        structure:<codeblock>/server1/weblogs/&lt;subdir>/&lt;filename></codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>After the files are written, you want MapR FS File Metadata executor to move
                        the files to a different root directory. When moving files you need to
                        specify the new location for the files. So you configure the executor to
                        move files to a different directory while still using the rest of the path
                        to the file as
                        follows:<codeblock>/newDir/${file:pathElement(record:value('/filepath'),1)}/${file:pathElement(record:value('/filepath'),2)}/</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p>This expression uses newDir as the new root directory, then uses two
                            levels of subdirectories. Do not include file names when moving files.
                        </p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Example for renaming files</dt>
                    <dd>Say you want to add the .json suffix to the original filename. When you
                        rename files, you need to specify the new name for the files, so you use the
                        following
                        expression:<codeblock>${file:fileName(record:value('/filepath'))}.json</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>This expression returns the file name from the filepath field in the event
                        record and adds .json to the file name, e.g.<codeph>
                            &lt;filename>.json</codeph>.</dd>
                    <dd>If you wanted to strip the extension from written files, you could use the
                        following expression in the New Name field:
                        <codeblock>${file:removeExtension(file:fileName(record:value('/filepath')))}</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>This expression returns the file name from the filepath event record field,
                        then strips the extension from the name, and uses the result as the new file
                        name.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
        <p>For more information about file functions, see <xref
                href="../Expression_Language/FileFunctions.dita#concept_kxj_nyl_5x"/>.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
