<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ohx_r5h_z1b">
 <title>MapR FS File Metadata Executor</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>executors<indexterm>MapR FS File
                Metadata</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>MapR FS File Metadata
                    executor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The MapR FS File Metadata
            executor changes file metadata, creates an empty file, or removes a file or directory in
            MapR FS each time it receives an event. You cannot perform multiple tasks in the same
            executor. To perform more than one task, use additional executors. </p>
        <p>Use the MapR FS File Metadata executor as part of an event stream. For example, you might
            use the executor to move a file or change file permissions after it receives a file
            closure event from the MapR FS destination.</p>
        <p>When changing metadata, you configure an expression that represents the location and name
            of the file to process, and then specify the changes you want to perform. When creating
            an empty file, you specify the output location for the file, and can optionally specify
            the owner, permissions, and ACLs for the file. When removing a file or directory, you
            specify the location of the file or directory.</p>
        <p>When necessary, you can enable Kerberos authentication and specify an HDFS user. You can
            also use HDFS configuration files and add other HDFS configuration properties as needed. </p>
        <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/p-Executor-EventXref"
        />
        <p>For a case study on how to use a similar executor, see <xref
                href="../Event_Handling/CaseStudy-FileManagement.dita#concept_d1q_xl4_lx"/>.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
