<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cnx_hqy_mx">
 <title>Avro to Parquet Job</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>MapReduce executor<indexterm>Avro to Parquet job</indexterm></indexterm>The
            MapReduce executor provides an Avro to Parquet job to convert Avro files to Parquet.
                <draft-comment author="Loretta">wording right? Does the executor provide the job? Or
                it's configured to kick off the job easily? </draft-comment>The Avro to Parquet job
            processes an Avro file after a destination closes it. That is, a destination that writes
            Avro files to HDFS finishes writing to a file, closes the file, and generates an event
            record. The event record contains information about the closed file, including the name
            and location of the file. </p>
        <p>When the MapReduce executor receives the event record, it starts a MapReduce job that
            converts the Avro file to Parquet. By default, it uses the file name and location in the
            "filepath" field of the event record to determine the file and location to process. The
            executor uses the following expression by
            default:<codeblock>${record:value('/filepath')}</codeblock></p>
        <p>You can change the expression as needed.</p>
        <p>When creating the Parquet file, the Mapreduce executor creates the file in a user-defined
            directory. It uses the existing name for the file. </p>
        <p>
            <draft-comment author="Loretta">new file is named the same as the old file, you decide
                where to write it.</draft-comment>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
