<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qzm_l4r_kz">
 <title>Pipeline Finisher Executor</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Pipeline Finisher
                    executor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>executors<indexterm>Pipeline
                    Finisher</indexterm></indexterm>When it receives an event, the Pipeline Finisher
            executor stops a pipeline and transitions it to a Finished state. This allows the
            pipeline to complete all expected processing before stopping.</p>
        <p>Use the Pipeline Finisher as part of an event stream. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/PipeFinish-Use"
            /></p>
        <p>For example, you might use the executor in a pipeline designed to migrate all existing
            data from Microsoft SQL Server to HDFS. And then use a separate pipeline to process
            incremental updates. Or, you might use the executor to perform traditional "batch"
            processing - to process data, then stop when all data is processed rather than waiting
            indefinitely for more data. </p>
        <p>When you restart a pipeline that was stopped by the Pipeline Finisher, the restart
            behavior depends on the origin. For example, if the origin stores an offset, when you
            restart the pipeline the origin begins at the last-saved offset by default. That is, if
            you run JDBC Query Consumer in incremental mode, the pipeline continues where it left
            off when you restart the pipeline. However, if you configure the JDBC Query Consumer to
            perform a full query, when you restart the pipeline, the origin performs the full query
            again. For more information, see "Event Generation" in the origin documentation.</p>
        <p>The Pipeline Finisher executor has no stage-specific properties, but you might use a
            precondition to limit the records that enter the stage. You might also set up
            notification to be informed when the Pipeline Finisher stops the pipeline. </p>
        <p>Before using the Pipeline Finisher, review the recommended implementation information. </p>
        <p>For a case study about using the Pipeline Finisher, see <xref
                href="../Event_Handling/CaseStudy-StopPipeline.dita#concept_kff_ykv_lz"/>. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventGen-xref"
            /></p>
        
 </conbody>
</concept>
