<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tgf_2gv_xz">
 <title>Notification Options</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Pipeline Finisher executor<indexterm>notification options</indexterm></indexterm><ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            can notify you when the Pipeline Finisher stops a pipeline. You can use either of the
            following notification methods:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Pipeline state notification</dt>
                    <dd>You can configure the pipeline to send an email or webhook when the pipeline
                        transitions to the specified state. Use this option to send a webhook or a
                        simple email notification. You cannot customize the email notification that
                        is sent.</dd>
                    <dd>To have the pipeline send notification when the Pipeline Finisher stops a
                        pipeline, set the Notify Upon Pipeline State Changes property to Finished.
                        For more information about pipeline state notifications, see <xref
                            href="../Pipeline_Configuration/Notifications.dita#concept_mtn_k4j_rz"
                        />.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Email executor</dt>
                    <dd>You can use an Email executor to send email notification. The Email executor
                        allows you to configure the condition to use to send the email, email
                        recipients, subject, and message. You can also use expressions in any
                        property to include details from the event record in the email. Use this
                        option to send a customized email upon receiving an event.</dd>
                    <dd>To send a custom email, route the same event that triggers the Pipeline
                        Finisher to the Email executor. After the Email executor and all other
                        stages in the pipeline complete their tasks, the Pipeline Finisher
                        transitions the pipeline to a Finished state.</dd>
                    <dd>For more information about using the Email executor, see <xref
                            href="Email.dita#concept_sjs_sfp_qz"/>. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
