<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_jsr_zpw_tz">
 <title>Shell Executor</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>executors<indexterm>Shell</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Shell
                    executor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>The Shell executor executes a
            shell script every time it receives an event. Use the Shell executor as part of an event
            stream. When using Shell executors in pipelines, you should configure <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            use Shell executor impersonation mode. </p>
        <p>When you configure the Shell executor, you define the shell script that you want to
            execute. You cannot use <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            expressions directly in the shell script, but you can use them to declare environment
            variables for script execution. Use the environment variables to propagate configuration
            for the script. </p>
        <p>For example, say you want to perform an action on a file that was closed by a Hadoop FS
            destination, one that you cannot perform with the HDFS File Metadata executor. You want
            to use the event record filepath field to specify the absolute path to the closed file.
            So you use an environment variable in the script, then you define the environment
            variable using the following expression:
            <codeph>${record:value('/filepath')}</codeph>.</p>
        <p>When you configure the executor, you also specify the maximum amount of time for the
            shell script to run. After the specified time elapses, the executor stops the
            script.</p>
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/O-EventGen-xref"
            /></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
