<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_n2w_txv_vz">
 <title>Data Collector Shell Impersonation Mode</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>impersonation mode<indexterm>enabling for the Shell
                executor</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Shell executor<indexterm>enabling Data
                    Collector shell impersonation mode</indexterm></indexterm>Enable the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            shell impersonation mode to enable the secure use of shell scripts. You enable the
            impersonation mode by configuring the shell impersonation mode property in the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            configuration file. Enabling the impersonation mode is not required, but strongly
            recommended. You can also configure related shell and sudo properties as needed. </p>
        <p>The Shell executor runs a user-defined shell script each time the stage receives an
            event. By default, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            executes the script as the operating system user who starts <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>.
            Thus, using the default configuration means that the shell script can stop <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> as
            well as any other tasks the user has the rights to perform.</p>
        <p>When you enable shell impersonation mode, the scripts are executed by the user who starts
            the pipeline. To use this option, the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            user who starts the pipeline must have a corresponding operating system user account,
            and sudo must be configured to allow passwordless use. For greater security, you can
            also limit the permissions for the operating system user account to restrict its
            access.</p>
        <p>To configure <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            use the shell impersonation mode, perform the following steps:<ol id="ol_i2y_mh3_xz">
                <li>For each user who starts Shell executor pipelines, create a matching user
                    account in the operating system and configure permissions as needed.<p>For
                        example, if <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> users Ops1 and Ops2 start all pipelines, create Ops1 and Ops2 user
                        accounts in the operating system and grant them limited
                    permissions.</p></li>
                <li>Ensure that the each of the operating system users has passwordless sudo for <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    />.</li>
                <li>Uncomment the following property in the <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> configuration
                    file:<codeblock>stage.conf_com.streamsets.pipeline.stage.executor.shell.impersonation_mode=CURRENT_USER</codeblock></li>
                <li>Restart <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    />.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/SDCDPM_ConfigSDC"
            /></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
