<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ckt_vcv_jz">
 <title>Spark on YARN</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Spark executor<indexterm>on YARN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>YARN cluster
                    manager<indexterm>with the Spark executor</indexterm></indexterm>When using the
            Spark executor with YARN, the executor can run the application in client or cluster
            mode. Run the application in client mode only when resource use is not a concern.</p>
        <p>When you configure the Spark executor, you can specify the number of worker nodes Spark
            should use, or you can enable dynamic allocation and specify the minimum and maximum
            number of worker nodes. Dynamic allocation allows Spark to use additional worker nodes as
            needed, within the specified range.</p>
        <p>You can specify additional cluster manager properties to pass to Spark, such as the
            maximum amount of memory that the application driver and executor can use.</p>
        <p>You can also configure additional Spark arguments and environment variables. Any
            arguments and variables that you enter override any previous definitions, including
            those in the Spark application, elsewhere in the Spark executor, and the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            machine.</p>
        <p>You can specify custom Spark and Java home directories, and a Hadoop proxy user. You can
            also enter Kerberos credentials if needed.</p>
        <p>When you configure the application details, you specify the language used to write the
            application and then define language-specific properties. </p>
        <p>Before you use the Spark executor, make sure to perform the prerequisite task.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
