<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_avx_bnq_rt">
 <title>Amazon S3</title>
 <shortdesc>The Amazon S3 destination writes data to Amazon S3. To write data to an Amazon Kinesis
        Firehose delivery system, use the Kinesis Firehose destination. To write data to Amazon
        Kinesis Streams, use the Kinesis Producer destination.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Amazon S3
                    destination<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>Amazon
                    S3</indexterm></indexterm>With the Amazon S3 destination, you configure the
            region, bucket, and common prefix to define where to write objects. You can use a
            partition prefix to specify the S3 partition to write to. You can also configure a
            prefix and suffix for the object name, and a time basis and data time zone for the
            stage.</p>
        <p>The Amazon S3 destination can write data asynchronously to improve performance when
            writing to multiple prefixes. You can configure advanced properties to tune performance. </p>
        <p>You can configure the destination to use Amazon Web Services server-side encryption to
            protect the data written to Amazon S3. You can also use a proxy user and compress data
            with gzip when writing to Amazon S3.</p>
        <p>The Amazon S3 destination creates an object for each batch of data written to Amazon S3. </p>
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/D-event-xref"
            /></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
