<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qtb_njg_vw">
 <title>Time Basis and Time-Based Partition Prefixes</title>
 <shortdesc>The time basis is the time used by the Amazon S3 destination to write records to a
        time-based partition prefix. When a partition prefix has no time component, you can ignore
        the time basis property.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p>A partition prefix has a time component when it includes datetime variables, such as
                <codeph>${YYYY()}</codeph> or <codeph>${DD()}</codeph>, or when it includes an
            expression that evaluates to a datetime value, such as
                <codeph>${record:valueOrDefault("/Timestamp")}.</codeph></p>
        <p>For details about datetime variables, see <xref
                href="../Expression_Language/DateTimeVariables.dita#concept_gh4_qd2_sv"/>.</p>
        <p>You can use the following times as the time basis: <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Processing Time</dt>
                    <dd>When you use processing time as the time basis, the destination writes to
                        partitions based on the processing time and the partition prefix. The
                        processing time is the time associated with the <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> running the pipeline. To use the processing time as the time basis, use
                        the following expression: <codeblock>${time:now()}</codeblock>This is the
                        default time basis. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Record Time</dt>
                    <dd>When you use the time associated with a record as the time basis, you
                        specify a date field in the record. The destination writes data to
                        partitions based on the datetimes associated with the records. </dd>
                    <dd>To use a time associated with the record, use an expression that calls a
                        field and resolves to a datetime value, such as
                            <codeph>${record:value("/Timestamp")}</codeph>. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
        <p>For example, say you define the Partition Prefix property using the following datetime
            variables: <codeblock>logs-${YYYY()}-${MM()}-${DD()}</codeblock></p>
        <p>If you use the time of processing as the time basis, the destination writes records to
            partitions based on when it processes each record. If you use the time associated with
            the data, such as a transaction timestamp, then the destination writes records to the
            partitions based on that timestamp. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
