<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hj4_brk_dbb">
 <title>Google BigQuery</title>
 <shortdesc>The Google BigQuery destination streams data into Google BigQuery. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Google BigQuery
                    destination<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>Google
                    BigQuery</indexterm></indexterm>When you configure the destination, you define
            the existing BigQuery dataset and table to stream data into. The destination streams
            each record into a row in a BigQuery table. You can optionally define an expression to
            specify the insert ID to insert or update. The insert ID is a unique ID for each row. If
            you do not specify an insert ID, the destination inserts each record into a new row. </p>
        <p>The destination maps fields from records to BigQuery columns based on matching names and
            compatible data types. You can configure the destination to ignore invalid columns when
            the destination cannot map a field to an existing BigQuery column. You can also
            configure the table cache size for the destination.</p>
        <p>You also define the project and credentials provider to use to connect to Google
            BigQuery. The destination can retrieve credentials from the Google Application Default
            Credentials or from a Google Cloud service account credentials file.</p>
        <p>For more information about streaming data into Google BigQuery, see the <xref
                href="https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/streaming-data-into-bigquery" format="html"
                scope="external">Google BigQuery documentation</xref>.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
