<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vwy_334_1y">
 <title>Time Basis</title>
 <shortdesc>The time basis determines the timestamp value added for each column written to Google
        Cloud Bigtable. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Google Bigtable destination<indexterm>time
                basis</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>time basis<indexterm>Google
                    Bigtable</indexterm></indexterm>You can use the following times as the time
            basis:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Pipeline start time</dt>
                <dd>When you use pipeline start time as the time basis, the destination uses the
                    time that the pipeline started as the timestamp value. The timestamp value is an
                    epoch or UNIX time in milliseconds. The processing time is calculated once per
                    pipeline. </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Batch start time</dt>
                <dd>When you use batch start time as the time basis, the destination uses the time
                    that <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> starts processing the current batch as the timestamp value. The timestamp
                    value is an epoch or UNIX time in milliseconds. The processing time is
                    calculated once per batch. </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>System time for each record</dt>
                <dd>When you use system time as the time basis, the destination uses the timestamp
                    value automatically generated by Cloud Bigtable when the column is written to
                    Cloud Bigtable. The timestamp value is an epoch or UNIX time in milliseconds. </dd>
                <dd>This is the default time basis. </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Long value from field in the record</dt>
                <dd>When you use the time associated with the record as the time basis, you specify
                    a field in the record that contains a Long value with an epoch or UNIX time in
                    milliseconds. The destination uses the field value as the timestamp value. If
                    the field value is not a Long, then the destination sends the record to the
                    pipeline for error handling.<note type="tip">You can use a time function, such
                        as time:dateTimeToMilliseconds or time:extractLongFromDate, in a processor
                        earlier in the pipeline to convert a Datetime value to the Long data
                        type.</note>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
