<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_a15_fcm_xs">
 <title>Enabling LZO and Snappy Compression</title>
  <shortdesc>To use LZO or Snappy compression with Hadoop FS, you need to enable the <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to use the
    compression type. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>LZO compression<indexterm>enabling for Hadoop
        FS</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Snappy compression<indexterm>enabling for Hadoop
          FS</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Hadoop FS destination<indexterm>enabling LZO or
          Snappy compression</indexterm></indexterm>The steps to enable compression differ based on
      the compression type that you want to use them with:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Using Snappy with the Hadoop FS destination</dt>
          <dd>You can use Snappy with one version of Hadoop FS. </dd>
          <dd>To enable Snappy for Hadoop FS, perform the following steps:</dd>
          <dd>
            <ol id="ol_ufy_42m_xs">
              <li>Verify the location of the libsnappy.so file.<p>With the Hadoop installation, the
                  libsnappy.so file is generally installed in the following directory: <filepath>
                    /usr/lib/hadoop/lib/native/</filepath>. </p><p>If the file is not installed at
                  this location, see the documentation for your Hadoop distribution for the location
                  of the file or instructions on how to install the file. For details, see the
                  documentation for your Hadoop distribution.</p>If you have multiple versions of
                Hadoop FS installed, make sure to locate the file for the version you want to use. </li>
              <li>In the <ph
                  conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
                environment file, set the Java system property java.library.path to the location of
                the Snappy native library. Add the property to the SDC_JAVA_OPTS environment
                variable as
                  follows:<codeblock>-Djava.library.path=&lt;path to Snappy native library></codeblock><p>For
                  information about configuring the SDC_JAVA_OPTS environment variable, see <xref
                    href="../Install_Config/JavaConfigOptions.dita#concept_vrx_4fg_qr"/>.</p></li>
              <li>In the destination, select the Snappy compression codec.</li>
            </ol>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Using LZO with the Hadoop FS destination</dt>
          <dd>You can use LZO with one version of Hadoop FS. </dd>
          <dd>To enable LZO for Hadoop FS, perform the following steps:<ol id="ol_l3s_fjm_xs">
              <li>If necessary, install the Hadoop LZO native library. <p>If you have multiple
                  versions of Hadoop FS installed, make sure you install the version that you want
                  to use. See the documentation for your Hadoop distribution for details. </p></li>
              <li>In the <ph
                  conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
                environment file, set the Java system property java.library.path to the location of
                the LZO native library. Add the property to the SDC_JAVA_OPTS environment variable
                as
                  follows:<p><codeblock>-Djava.library.path=&lt;path to LZO native library></codeblock>For
                  information about configuring the SDC_JAVA_OPTS environment variable, see <xref
                    href="../Install_Config/JavaConfigOptions.dita#concept_vrx_4fg_qr"/>.</p></li>
              <li>In the destination, select the Other compression codec and enter the full LZO
                class name.</li>
            </ol></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
