<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dd3_vhk_r5">
 <title>Time Basis and Time-Based Indexes</title>
    <shortdesc>The time basis is the time used by the Elasticsearch destination to write records to
        time-based indexes. When indexes have no time component, you can ignore the time basis
        property.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Elasticsearch destination<indexterm>time
                basis</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>time
                    basis<indexterm>Elasticsearch</indexterm></indexterm>You can use the time of
            processing or the time associated with the data as the time basis. </p>
        <p>For example, say you define the Index property using the following datetime variables:
            <codeblock>logs-${YYYY()}-${MM()}-${DD()}</codeblock></p>
        <p>If you use the time of processing as the time basis, the destination write records to
            indexes based on when it processes each record. If you use the time associated with the
            data, such as a transaction timestamp, then the destination writes records to the
            indexes based on that timestamp. </p>
        <p>You can use the following times as the time basis: <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Processing Time</dt>
                    <dd>When you use processing time as the time basis, the destination writes to
                        indexes based on the processing time and the index. To use the processing
                        time as the time basis, use the following expression:
                        <codeblock>${time:now()}</codeblock>This is the default time basis. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Record Time</dt>
                    <dd>When you use the time associated with a record as the time basis, you
                        specify a date field in the record. The destination writes data to indexes
                        based on the datetimes associated with the records. </dd>
                    <dd>To use a time associated with the record, use an expression that calls a
                        field and resolves to a datetime value, such as
                            <codeph>${record:value("/Timestamp")}</codeph>. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
