<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ffn_tc4_sbb">
 <title>Time Basis, Data Time Zone, and Time-Based Partition Prefixes</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>time basis and partition prefixes<indexterm>Google Cloud Storage
                    destination</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Google Cloud Storage
                    destination<indexterm>time basis and partition
            prefixes</indexterm></indexterm>The time basis and the data time zone comprises the time
            used by the Google Cloud Storage destination to write records to a time-based partition
            prefix. When the configured partition prefix does not include time-based functions, you
            can ignore the time basis property.</p>
        <p>A partition prefix has a time component when it includes datetime variables, such as
                <codeph>${YYYY()}</codeph> or <codeph>${DD()}</codeph>, or when it includes an
            expression that evaluates to a datetime value, such as
                <codeph>${record:value("/Timestamp")}.</codeph></p>
        <p>For details about datetime variables, see <xref
                href="../Expression_Language/DateTimeVariables.dita#concept_gh4_qd2_sv"/>.</p>
        <p>You can use the following times as the time basis: <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Processing Time</dt>
                    <dd>When you use processing time as the time basis, the destination performs
                        writes based on the processing time and the configured partition prefix. The
                        processing time is the time associated with the <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> running the pipeline, by default. You can specify a different time zone
                        by configuring the Data Time Zone property. To use the processing time as
                        the time basis, use the following expression:
                        <codeblock>${time:now()}</codeblock>This is the default time basis. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Record Time</dt>
                    <dd>When you use the time associated with a record as the time basis, you
                        specify a date field in the record. The destination writes data based on the
                        datetimes associated with the records, adjusting for the value specified for
                        the Data Time Zone property.</dd>
                    <dd>To use a time associated with the record, use an expression that calls a
                        field and resolves to a datetime value, such as
                            <codeph>${record:value("/Timestamp")}</codeph>. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
        <p>For example, say you define the Partition Prefix property using the following datetime
            variables: <codeblock>logs-${YYYY()}-${MM()}-${DD()}</codeblock></p>
        <p>If you use the time of processing as the time basis, the destination writes records to
            partitions based on when it processes each record. If you use the time associated with
            the data, such as a transaction timestamp, then the destination writes records to the
            partitions based on that timestamp. If a partition does not exist, the destination
            creates the needed partition.</p>
        <p>
            <draft-comment author="Loretta">This topic is based on S3 dest > Time Basis. But does
                not address buckets. – add info about Data Time Zone?</draft-comment>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
