<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qsx_ryn_sbb">
 <title>Partition Prefix</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Google Cloud Storage destination<indexterm>partition
                prefix</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>partition prefix<indexterm>Google Cloud
                    Storage destination</indexterm></indexterm>You can use a partition prefix to
            organize objects by partitions. You can use the partition prefix to write to existing
            partitions or to create new partitions as needed. When a partition specified in the
            partition prefix does not exist, the destination creates the partition.</p>
        <p>You can specify an exact partition name for the partition prefix, or you can use an
            expression that evaluates to a partition name. </p>
        <p>For example, to write to partitions based on data in the Country field, you can use the
            following expression as the partition prefix:
                <codeph>${record:value('/Country')}</codeph>. </p>
        <p>With this expression, the destination writes records to partitions based on the country
            data in the record, and creates partitions for countries that do not already have a
            partition.</p>
        <p>If you use datetime variables in the expression, be sure to configure the <xref
                href="AmazonS3-TimeBasis.dita#concept_qtb_njg_vw">time basis</xref> for the
            stage.</p>
        <p>
            <draft-comment author="Loretta">This topic is based on the Amazon S3 dest > Partition
                Prefix topic. The code is copied, not reused, so they can be
                different.</draft-comment>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
