<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lmn_gdc_1w">
    <title>Record Header Attributes for Record-Based Writes</title>
    <shortdesc>Hadoop FS can use record header attributes to determine the directory to write a
        record to, the Avro schema to use, and when to roll a file. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Hadoop FS destination<indexterm>record header attributes for record-based
                    writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>record header
                    attributes<indexterm>Hadoop FS destination record-based
                writes</indexterm></indexterm>The Hive Metadata processor generates record header
            attributes that Hadoop FS can use as part of the Hive Drift Solution. Or, you can use an
            Expression Evaluator to add the targetDirectory record header attribute. </p>
        <p>To use record header attributes, ensure that the records include the header attributes
            and configure the destination to use the header attribute.</p>
        <p>You can use the following record header attributes in Hadoop FS:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>targetDirectory</dt>
                    <dd>The targetDirectory header attribute defines the directory where the record
                        is written. If the directory does not exist, the destination creates the
                        directory. The targetDirectory header attribute replaces the Directory
                        Template property in the destination.</dd>
                    <dd>When you use targetDirectory to provide the directory, the time basis
                        configured for the destination is used only for determining whether a record
                        is late. Time basis is not used to determine the output directories to
                        create or to write records to directories.</dd>
                    <dd>To use the targetDirectory header attribute, on the
                            <wintitle>Output</wintitle> tab, select <uicontrol>Directory in
                            Header</uicontrol>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>avroSchema</dt>
                    <dd>The avroSchema header attribute defines the Avro schema for the record. When
                        you use this header attribute, you cannot define an Avro schema to use in
                        the destination. </dd>
                    <dd>To use the avroSchema header attribute, on the <wintitle>Avro</wintitle>
                        tab, select <uicontrol>Load Schema from Header</uicontrol>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>roll</dt>
                    <dd>The roll attribute, when present in the record header, triggers a roll of
                        the file. </dd>
                    <dd>You can define the name of the roll header attribute. When you use the Hive
                        Metadata processor to generate the roll header attribute, use the default
                        "roll" attribute name.</dd>
                    <dd>To use a roll header attribute, on the <wintitle>Output</wintitle> tab,
                        select <uicontrol>Use Roll Attribute</uicontrol> and define the name of the
                        attribute. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="../Hive_Metadata/HiveDrift-Overview.dita#concept_phk_bdf_2w"/>
        <link href="../Processors/HiveMetadata.dita#concept_rz5_nft_zv"/>
    </related-links>
</concept>
