<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lmn_gdc_1w">
    <title>Stage Attributes</title>
    <shortdesc>A stage attribute is a record header attribute with information that a stage can use
        to process records. Hadoop FS can use a stage attribute to determine the directory to write
        a record to.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>To pass a stage attribute to Hadoop FS, you configure the destination to use the
            attribute, and you ensure that the record headers include the stage attribute. Use the
            Expression Evaluator processor to add stage attributes to record headers. <draft-comment
                author="Loretta">1. Come back and add the Hive Metadata processor when it's
                in.</draft-comment></p>
        <p>You can use the following stage attribute in Hadoop FS:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>targetDirectory</dt>
                    <dd>The targetDirectory attribute defines the directory where the record is
                        written. If the directory does not exist, the destination creates the
                        directory. The targetDirectory stage attribute replaces the Directory
                        Template property in the destination.</dd>
                    <dd>When processing the targetDirectory attribute, Hadoop FS uses the directory
                        exactly as written in the attribute. Unlike directory templates, the
                        directory specified in the targetDirectory attribute should not include any
                        components that require evaluation, such as constants, variables, or runtime
                        properties. </dd>
                    <dd>However, when you define the expression that evaluates to a directory, you
                        can use any valid component, including expressions that evaluate data in the
                        record. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, you want to write records to different directories based on the
                        Data Collector that runs the pipeline, and the region and store ID where the
                        transaction took place. You can set up a runtime resource named DIR that
                        defines the base for the directory and define DIR for each Data Collector
                        that runs the pipeline. Then, you can use the following expression in the
                        Expression Evaluator to define the targetDirectory
                        attribute:<codeblock>${runtime:conf('DIR')/transactions/${record.value('/region')}/${record.value('/storeID')}</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>When you use targetDirectory to provide the directory, the time basis
                        configured for the destination is used only for determining whether a record
                        is late. Time basis is not used to determine the output directories to
                        create or to write records to directories.</dd>
                    <dd>To define the directory for a record:<ol id="ol_ahx_gbz_bw">
                            <li>Use the Expression Evaluator to define a "targetDirectory" header
                                attribute and configure an expression that returns the directory
                                that you want to use. </li>
                            <li>In Hadoop FS, on the <wintitle>Output Files</wintitle> tab, select
                                    the<uicontrol> Directory in Header</uicontrol> property.</li>
                        </ol></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
