<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gkz_smd_br">
 <title>Time Basis</title>
 <shortdesc>The time basis helps determine when directories are created and which directory Hadoop
  FS uses when writing a record. You can use the following times as the time basis: </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Processing Time</dt>
     <dd><indexterm>Hadoop FS destination<indexterm>time
       basis</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>time basis<indexterm>Hadoop
       FS</indexterm></indexterm>When you use processing time as the time basis, Hadoop FS creates
      directories based on the processing time and the directory template, and writes records to the
      directories based on when they are processed.</dd>
     <dd>For example, say a directory template creates directories every minute and the time basis
      is the time of processing. Then, directories are created for every minute that Hadoop FS
      writes output records. And the output records are written to the directory for that minute of
      processing. </dd>
     <dd>To use the processing time as the time basis, use the following expression:
       <codeph>${time:now()}</codeph>. This is the default time basis. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Record Time</dt>
     <dd>When you use the time associated with a record as the time basis, you specify a Date field
      in the record. Hadoop FS creates directories based on the datetimes associated with the
      records and writes the records to the appropriate directories. </dd>
     <dd>For example, say a directory template creates directories every hour and the time basis is
      based on the record. Then, directories are created for every hour associated with output
      records and Hadoop FS writes the records to the related output directory. </dd>
     <dd>To use a time associated with the record, use an expression that calls a field and resolves
      to a datetime value, such as <codeph>${record:value("/Timestamp")}</codeph>. </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
