<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wsz_hml_gw">
    <title>Target Directory Generation</title>
    <shortdesc>You can use an Expression Evaluator to generate the targetDirectory stage
        attribute.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>When possible, use the Hive Metastore processor to generate stage attributes. The Hive
            Metastore processor, Hive Metastore destination, and Hadoop FS work together as part of
            the Hive-Avro drift solution.</p>
        <p>However, you can use the Expression Evaluator to generate targetDirectory stage
            attributes that Hadoop FS can use to write to HDFS.</p>
        <p>When processing the targetDirectory attribute, Hadoop FS uses the directory exactly as
            written in the attribute. Unlike directory templates, the directory specified in the
            targetDirectory attribute should not include any components that require evaluation,
            such as constants, variables, or runtime properties.</p>
        <p>However, when you define the expression that evaluates to a directory, you can use any
            valid component, including expressions that evaluate data in the record.</p>
        <p>For example, you want to write records to different directories based on the Data
            Collector that runs the pipeline, and the region and store ID where the transaction took
            place. You can set up a runtime resource named DIR that defines the base for the
            directory and define DIR for each Data Collector that runs the pipeline. Then, you can
            use the following expression in the Expression Evaluator to define the targetDirectory
            attribute:<codeblock>${runtime:conf('DIR')/transactions/${record.value('/region')}/${record.value('/storeID')}</codeblock></p>
        <p>To define a stage attribute in the Expression Evaluator, perform the following steps:<ol
                id="ol_jww_k31_cw">
                <li>On the <wintitle>Expressions</wintitle> tab of the Expression Evaluator, specify
                    the <uicontrol>Header Attribute</uicontrol> name. <p>To use a directory in the
                        record header instead of a directory template, use the following header
                        attribute name: <codeph>targetDirectory</codeph>.</p></li>
                <li>For the <uicontrol>Header Attribute Expression</uicontrol>, define an expression
                    that evaluates to the directory where the record should be written. </li>
            </ol></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
