<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_awl_4km_zq">
 <title>Hadoop FS</title>
 <shortdesc>The Hadoop FS destination writes data to the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS). You
    can write the data to HDFS as flat files or Hadoop sequence files. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Hadoop FS
                    destination<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>Hadoop
                    FS</indexterm></indexterm>When you configure a Hadoop FS destination, you can
            define a directory template and time basis to determine the output directories that the
            destination creates and the files where records are written. </p>
        <p>As part of the Hive Drift Solution, you can alternatively use record header attributes to
            perform record-based writes. You can write records to the specified directory, use the
            defined Avro schema, and roll files based on record header attributes. </p>
        <p>You can define a file prefix, the data time zone, and properties that define when the
            destination closes a file. You can specify the amount of time that a record can be
            written to its associated directory and what happens to late records.</p>
        <p>You can configure the destination to write to Azure HDInsight.</p>
    <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/HDFS_user_props"/>
    <p>You can use Gzip, Bzip2, Snappy, LZ4, and other compression formats to write output files.
                <draft-comment author="Loretta">Make sure changes in Hadoop FS topics go into MapR
                FS and probably Local FS. </draft-comment></p>
 </conbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="RecordHeaderAttributes.dita#concept_lmn_gdc_1w"/>
        <link href="../Hive_Metadata/HiveDrift-Overview.dita#concept_phk_bdf_2w"/>
    </related-links>
</concept>
