<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_imm_vpq_1r">
 <title>Output Directory Generation</title>
 <shortdesc>Hadoop FS creates directories based on a time-based template that you define and the
  time basis you choose. It writes records to the resulting directories based on the values of the
  record. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Defining the Directory Template</dt>
     <dd>When you define the output directory template, you can use values in the field and datetime
      values as part of the path. </dd>
     <dd>To include values in a field, use ${record:value("/&lt;/Field>")}. To include datetime
      values, you can use the following variables: <ul id="ul_s2x_5qq_1r">
       <li>${YYYY} - four digit year</li>
       <li>${YY} - two digit year</li>
       <li>${MM} - two digit month</li>
       <li>${DD}</li>
       <li>${hh} - two digit hour</li>
       <li>${mm} - two digit minute</li>
       <li>${ss} - two digit second.</li>
      </ul></dd>
     <dd>Hadoop FS creates directories based on the smallest unit of measure that you use. </dd>
     <dd>For example, to create output directories for event data based on the state and timestamp
      of a record, you might define the following output directory template:
      /outputfiles/${record:value("/State")}/${YY}-${MM}-${hh}.</dd>
     <dd>Since the smallest unit of measurement is the hour, Hadoop FS creates a new output
      directory every hour for every state included in output data. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Time Basis</dt>
     <dd>The time basis for output files can be based on the time of processing or the time
      associated with the record. To use the processing time as the time basis, use the following
      default expression: <codeph>${time:now()}</codeph>. </dd>
     <dd>To use a datetime value associated with the record, use an expression that calls a field
      and resolves to a datetime value. Be sure to define the time zone for the data as well. </dd>
     <dd>For example, to use the record as a time basis for the event data described above, you
      might use the following expression to call the Timestamp field:
      ${record:value("/Timestamp")}.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
