<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wyr_5jv_hw">
 <title>Hive Table Generation</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Hive Metastore destination<indexterm>Hive table
            generation</indexterm></indexterm>When the Drift Synchronization Solution for Hive
            processes Parquet data, the destination uses the Stored as Parquet clause when
            generating the table so it does not need to generate a new schema for each change. </p>
        <p>When the Drift Synchronization Solution for Hive processes Avro data, the Hive Metastore
            destination can generate Hive tables using the following methods:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>With the Stored As Avro clause</dt>
                    <dd>Generates the table with a query that includes the Stored As Avro clause.
                        When using the Stored As Avro clause, the destination does not need to
                        generate an Avro schema for each change in the Hive table. </dd>
                    <dd>This is the default and recommended method for table generation. Enable the
                            <uicontrol>Stored As Avro</uicontrol> property to use this method.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Without the Stored As Avro clause</dt>
                    <dd>Generates the table without a Stored As Avro clause in the query. Instead,
                        the destination generates an Avro schema for each Hive table update. The
                        destination uses the following format for the schema name:
                            <codeph>avro_schema_&lt;database>_&lt;table>_&lt;UUID>.avsc</codeph>. </dd>
                    <dd>The destination stores the Avro schema in HDFS. You can configure where the
                        destination saves the schemas. You can specify a full path or a path
                        relative to the table directory. By default, the destination saves the
                        schema in a <filepath>.schemas</filepath> subfolder of the table directory. </dd>
                    <dd>You can configure the destination to generate and store the schemas as a
                        specified HDFS user. <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> must be configured as a proxy user in HDFS.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
