<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_a5r_zt5_lz">
 <title>Number of Requests</title>
 <shortdesc>The HTTP Client destination can generate one HTTP request for each record, or it can
        generate a single request containing all records in the batch. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p>Configure the destination to generate requests in one of the following ways:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Multiple requests per batch</dt>
                <dd>By default, the destination generates one HTTP request for each record in the
                    batch and sends multiple requests at a time. To preserve record order, the
                    destination waits until all requests for the entire batch are completed before
                    processing the next batch. </dd>
                <dd>When the destination generates multiple requests per batch, you specify the
                    maximum number of parallel requests. Default is 1. Increasing the number of
                    parallel requests can improve performance but increases the load on the server.
                    Network latency can also significantly impact the performance when sending
                    multiple parallel requests.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Single request per batch</dt>
                <dd>If you enable the One Request per Batch property, the destination generates a
                    single HTTP request containing all records in the batch. </dd>
                <dd>When the destination generates a single request per batch, it ignores the value
                    entered for the maximum number of parallel requests. Generating a single request
                    per batch can improve performance, depending on the amount of data sent in the
                    request.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
    </conbody>
</concept>
