<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_oq2_5jl_zq">
 <title>Kafka Producer</title>
 <shortdesc>The Kafka Producer destination writes data to a Kafka cluster. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Kafka Producer
                    destination<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>Kafka
                    Producer</indexterm></indexterm>When you configure a Kafka Producer, you define
            connection information, the partition strategy, and data format to use. You can also
            configure Kafka Producer to determine the topic to write to at runtime.</p>
  <p>The Kafka Producer passes data to partitions in the Kafka topic based on the partition strategy
            that you choose. You can optionally write a batch of records to the Kafka cluster as a
            single message.</p>
        <p>You can add additional Kafka configuration properties as needed. When using <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/KafkaSecure"/>,
            you can also configure the origin to use Kafka security features.</p>
        <p>When using Kafka version 0.8.2 or later to write messages in the Avro format, you can
            configure the Kafka Producer to work with the Confluent Schema Registry. The Confluent
            Schema Registry is a distributed storage layer for Avro schemas which uses Kafka as its
            underlying storage mechanism.</p>
        <p>
            <draft-comment author="Loretta">Make sure changes in Kafka Producer topics go into MapR
                Producer. </draft-comment>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
