<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qpm_xp4_4r">
 <title>Partition Strategy</title>
 <shortdesc>The partition strategy determines how to write data to Kafka partitions. You can use a
  partition strategy for balance the load or to write data semantically.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Kafka Producer destination<indexterm>partition
    strategy</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Kafka Producer destination<indexterm>partition
     expression</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>partition strategy<indexterm>Kafka
     Producer</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>partition expression<indexterm>Kafka
     Producer</indexterm></indexterm>The Kafka Producer provides the following partition strategies:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Round-Robin</dt>
     <dd>Writes each record to different partition using a cyclical order. Use for load
      balancing.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Random</dt>
     <dd>Writes each record to a different partition using a random order. Use for load
      balancing.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Expression</dt>
     <dd>Writes each record to a partition based on the results of the partition expression. Use to
      perform semantic partitioning. </dd>
     <dd>When you configure the partition expression, define the expression to evaluate to the
      partition where you want each record written. For example, the following expression writes
      records to partitions based on the value in the Age
      field:<codeblock>${record:value('/Age')&lt;21 ? 0 : 1}</codeblock></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
