<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dvg_vvj_wx">
 <title>Define the Operation</title>
 <shortdesc>To write to Kudu, you configure the destination to perform one of the following write
        operations: insert, update, delete, or upsert. You define the default operation for the
        destination. You can also define the operation in a record header attribute.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Kudu destination<indexterm>write operation</indexterm></indexterm>You define the
            write operation in the following ways:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Default operation in the Kudu destination properties</dt>
                <dd>You must define a default write operation in the Kudu destination properties.
                    The destination uses the default operation if the sdc.operation.type record
                    header attribute is not set or contains a value that is not supported. If the
                    write operation is defined in both the record header attribute and the Kudu
                    destination properties, the value set in the record header attribute takes
                    precedence.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
            <dt>Record header attribute</dt>
                <dd>You can define the write operation in the sdc.operation.type record header
                    attribute. The Kudu destination reads the value of the sdc.operation.type record
                    header attribute to determine the operation to perform. </dd>
                <dd>Define the record header attribute using the Expression Evaluator or a scripting
                    processor. Set the attribute to one of the following numeric values:<ul
                        id="ul_smy_qf3_1y">
                        <li>1 - inserts records</li>
                        <li>2 - deletes records</li>
                        <li>3 - updates records</li>
                        <li>4 - upserts records </li>
                    </ul></dd>
                <dd>In the Advanced tab for the Kudu destination, you can configure how the
                    destination handles records that have an unsupported value for the
                    sdc.operation.type record header attribute. Unsupported values include
                    non-numeric values, negative numeric values, or zero. You can configure the
                    destination to discard the record, send the record to error, or use the default
                    operation. </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
