<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_etz_vd3_qy">
 <title>Row Key Data Types</title>
    <shortdesc>You configure the MapR DB JSON destination to process row keys as string or binary
        data. If necessary, the MapR DB JSON destination converts the data type of the row key field
        and then writes the converted value to the _id field in the JSON document.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <note>The destination cannot convert the List, Map, or List-Map data types. As a result, you
            cannot define a field with these data types as the row key.</note>
        <p>The destination processes the field defined as the row key as one of the following data
            types:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>String</dt>
                <dd>When you configure the destination to process the row key as string data, you
                    can assign fields with any data type as a row key, except for fields with a
                    List, Map, or List-Map data type. The origin processes the row key data as
                    String, converting data types as necessary. A Byte Array field is an exception
                    to this rule. The destination processes a Byte Array field defined as a row key
                    as binary data, even if the destination is configured to process the row key as
                    string data.</dd>
                <dd>By default, the MapR DB JSON destination processes the row key as string data.
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Binary</dt>
                <dd>When you configure the destination to process the row key as binary data, you
                    can assign fields with the following data types as a row key:<ul
                        id="ul_cc4_f23_qy">
                        <li>Byte Array</li>
                        <li>Date</li>
                        <li>Datetime</li>
                        <li>Integer</li>
                        <li>Long</li>
                        <li>Short</li>
                        <li>String</li>
                        <li>Time</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                <dd>If the field defined as the row key is any other data type, the record is sent
                    to the stage for error handling.</dd>
                <dd>The origin processes the row key data as Byte Array, converting data types as
                    necessary. Date, Datetime, and Time fields are first converted to an epoch time
                    in milliseconds, and then converted to a Byte Array.</dd>
                <dd>To configure the destination to process the row key as binary data, select the
                    Process Row Key as Binary property.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
