<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gd5_fwg_xbb">
 <title>Insert and Set API Properties</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>The Insert API and Set API properties determine how records are treated when records with the
            same row key exist in the MapR DB JSON table.<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Insert API</dt>
                    <dd>Used for Insert records. This includes records where the CRUD operation
                        header attribute is set to Insert, and those where the attribute is not set
                        at all. You can use one of the following MapR APIs:<ul id="ul_lpx_lyg_xbb">
                            <li>
                                <p>MapR Insert API - The MapR DB JSON destination inserts the record
                                    into the MapR DB JSON table when no matching row key exists in
                                    the table. When the table has a matching row key, the
                                    destination sends the record to error, using the error handling
                                    configured for the stage. </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>MapR InsertOrReplace API - The MapR DB JSON destination inserts
                                    the record into the MapR DB JSON table when no matching row key
                                    exists in the table. When the table has a matching row key, the
                                    destination replaces the existing row. This is the default
                                    API.</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Set API</dt>
                    <dd>Used only for Update records. This includes only records where the CRUD
                        operation header attribute is set to Update. You can use one of the
                        following MapR APIs:<ul id="ul_lvn_n1h_xbb">
                            <li>MapR Set API - The MapR DB JSON performs updates only when the data
                                types of the fields in the record match the corresponding fields in
                                the existing row. When the data types do not match, the destination
                                sends the record to error, using the error handling configured for
                                the stage. </li>
                            <li>MapR SetOrReplace API - The MapR DB JSON updates the existing row
                                regardless of whether the data types in record match those in the
                                existing row. This is the default API.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
