<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wln_nf4_2v">
 <title>Partition Strategy</title>
    <shortdesc>The partition strategy determines how to write data to partitions. You can use a
        partition strategy to balance the work load or to write data semantically.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>MapR Streams Producer destination<indexterm>partition
                strategy</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>MapR Streams Producer
                    destination<indexterm>partition
                expression</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>partition strategy<indexterm>MapR
                    Streams Producer</indexterm></indexterm>The MapR Streams Producer provides the
            following partition strategies:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Round-Robin</dt>
                    <dd>Writes each record to a different partition using a cyclical order. Use for
                        load balancing.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Random</dt>
                    <dd>Writes each record to a different partition using a random order. Use for
                        load balancing.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Expression</dt>
                    <dd>Writes each record to a partition based on the results of the partition
                        expression. Use to perform semantic partitioning. </dd>
                    <dd>When you configure the partition expression, define the expression to
                        evaluate to the partition where you want each record written. The expression
                        must return a numeric value. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, the following expression writes records to two partitions based
                        on the value in the Age
                        field:<codeblock>${record:value('/Age') &lt; 21 ? 0 : 1}</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>The following example writes to three partitions based on the value of the
                        Age
                        field:<codeblock>${record:value('/a') &lt; 21 ? 0 : record:value('/a') &lt; 55 ? 1 : 2}</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Default</dt>
                    <dd>Writes each record using the default partition strategy that MapR Streams
                        provides.</dd>
                    <dd>When you use the default partition strategy, you configure a partition
                        expression that returns the partition key from the records, such as
                            <codeph>${record:value('/partitionkey')}</codeph>.  The expression must
                        return a string value.<p>The MapR Streams Producer writes each record to a
                            partition based on a hash of the partition key. </p></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
