<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_i4h_2kj_dy">
 <title>MapR DB JSON</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>MapR DB JSON
                    destination<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>MapR
                    DB JSON</indexterm></indexterm>The MapR DB JSON destination writes data as JSON
            documents to MapR DB JSON tables. The destination converts each record into a JSON
            document and writes the document to the JSON table that you specify. To write text,
            binary data, or JSON strings to MapR DB binary tables, use the <xref
                href="MapRDB.dita#concept_vxg_w2z_yv">MapR DB destination</xref>. </p>
        <p>MapR DB JSON tables are tables in which every row is a JSON document. The JSON documents
            in a table do not need to have the same structure. For example, a single JSON table can
            include any number of JSON documents that share only some common fields.</p>
        <p>The MapR DB JSON destination can use CRUD operations defined in the sdc.operation.type
            record header attribute to write data. When CRUD operations are not specified in a
            record, the destination treats it like an Insert record. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/CDC-xref"/></p>
        <p>When you configure the MapR DB JSON destination, you specify the table name and whether
            the destination should create the table if it doesn't exist. You specify the row key for
            the table. And you configure the Insert API and Set API properties, which can affect how
            the destination writes data to MapR DB JSON tables.</p>
        <p conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/MapRPrereq"/>
 </conbody>
</concept>
