<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xdm_24k_mcb">
    <title>Working with the Named Pipe Reader</title>
    <shortdesc>The Named Pipe destination writes data to the named pipe, and the named pipe reader -
        or reading application - then reads the incoming data.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Consider the following ways that the Named Pipe destination and the named pipe reader
            interact:</p>
        <ul id="ul_wwh_w5k_mcb">
            <li>If you start the pipeline before the  named pipe reader is available to read, the
                pipeline remains in a STARTING state until the reader becomes available. <p>As a
                    best practice, we recommend starting the reader before starting the pipeline
                    that contains the Named Pipe destination.</p></li>
            <li>When the named pipe reader becomes available, the pipeline transitions to a RUNNING
                state and the Named Pipe destination begins writing to the named pipe. If the
                destination writes faster than the reader can process the data, the named pipe might
                become full. In this case, the destination waits to write additional data until the
                named pipe can receive more data. </li>
            <li>If the pipeline stops while the named pipe reader is still available, the reader
                receives an IOException for the broken pipe.</li>
            <li>If the named pipe reader stops while the pipeline with the Named Pipe destination is
                running, <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> displays a stage exception about the broken pipe.</li>
        </ul>
    </conbody>
</concept>
