<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pl5_tdg_gcb">
 <title>Named Pipe</title>
 <shortdesc>The Named Pipe destination writes data to a UNIX named pipe. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Named Pipe
          destination<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>Named
          Pipe</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>FIFO<indexterm>Named Pipe
        destination</indexterm></indexterm>A named pipe (or FIFO) can be accessed by two separate
      processes on a machine - one process opens the pipe as the writer, and the other as a reader.
      The Named Pipe destination serves as the writer. Another process running on the same <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> machine
      can serve as the reader.</p>
    <p>Use the destination to send data to an application that can read data from a named pipe. For
      example, both the  PostgreSQL <codeph>psql</codeph> utility and the Greenplum
        <codeph>gpload</codeph> utility support loading data from named pipes. You can configure
      either utility to read from the named pipe written to by the Named Pipe destination. The
      utility can then load that data into a PostrgreSQL or Greenplum database.</p>
    <p>Before you use the Named Pipe destination, you must create a named pipe on the machine where
        <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> is
      installed. You also must configure the named pipe reader - or reading application - that runs
      on the <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      machine to receive the data from the same named pipe.</p>
    <p>When you configure the Named Pipe destination, you enter the full path to the local named
      pipe that you created. You also specify the data format that the destination uses to write
      data to the named pipe.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
