<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xql_wbj_mcb">
    <title>Field Mappings</title>
    <shortdesc>When you configure the Salesforce destination, you map fields in the record to
        existing fields in the Salesforce object.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Salesforce destination<indexterm>field mappings</indexterm></indexterm>To map
            a field, you enter the following:<ul id="ul_xqg_zbj_mcb">
                <li>SDC Field - Name of the field in the record that contains the data to be
                    written. </li>
                <li>Salesforce Field - API name of the existing field in the Salesforce object that
                    receives the data. Enter a field name or enter an expression that defines the
                    field. </li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>Map the fields as required by the CRUD operation that the destination uses:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Delete or undelete</dt>
                    <dd>To delete or undelete data, map only the Salesforce record Id to delete or
                        undelete. Create a single field mapping that maps the field in the record
                        that contains the value of the Salesforce record Id to the Salesforce field
                        named “Id”. <note>Undelete is not supported by the Salesforce Bulk
                            API.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Insert, update, or upsert</dt>
                    <dd>To insert, update, or upsert data, you can can create multiple field
                        mappings. When you define the Salesforce fields, use the field name syntax
                        required by the configured API type:<ul id="ul_itq_2cj_mcb">
                            <li>Bulk API - Use a colon (:) or period (.) as a field separator. For
                                example, Parent__r:External_Id__c or Parent__r.External_Id__c are
                                both valid Salesforce fields.</li>
                            <li>SOAP API - Use a period (.) as a field separator. For example,
                                Parent__r.External_Id__c is a valid Salesforce field.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>To upsert data, you also must configure the External ID Field property that
                        specifies the external ID field in the Salesforce object to use for the
                        upsert operation.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
