<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ryn_v3z_lr">
 <title>To Error </title>
 <shortdesc>The To Error destination passes records to the pipeline for error handling. Use the To
  Error destination to send a stream of records to pipeline error handling. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Typically, error records are generated and dropped from the pipeline individually. With some
   processors, such as the Stream Selector or JavaScript Evaluator, you can create multiple streams
   of data, including a stream of records that you consider error records. You can connect an error
   stream to the To Error destination to pass the records to the pipeline for error handling. </p>
  <p>The pipeline performs error handling based on the Error Records properties configured for the
   pipeline. </p>
  <p>As with other destinations, you can <ph product="SDC">monitor the number of records passed to
                the To Error destination and you can create metric and data alerts. You can also
            </ph>examine the data sent to the destination as part of data preview<ph product="SDC">
                or a monitor snapshot</ph>. </p>
  <p>The To Error destination has no configuration options. To use the destination in a pipeline,
   simply add the stage and connect the pipeline to the stage.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
