<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hlx_r53_rx">
 <title>Wave Analytics</title>
 <shortdesc>The Wave Analytics destination writes data to Salesforce Wave Analytics. The destination
        connects to Wave Analytics to create a dataset with external data.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Wave Analytics
                    destination<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>Wave
                    Analytics</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Salesforce Wave Analytics
                    destination<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>Salesforce
                    Wave Analytics</indexterm></indexterm>When you configure the Wave Analytics
            destination, you define connection information, including the API version that the
            destination uses to connect to Salesforce Wave Analytics. </p>
        <p>You specify the <i>edgemart alias</i> or name of the dataset to create. The destination
            typically creates multiple datasets for the edgemart alias, based on the dataset wait
            time that you configure for the destination. After no data has arrived for the specified
            wait time, the destination closes and uploads the dataset to Wave Analytics. When new
            data arrives, the destination creates a new dataset. Each dataset is named with the
            edgemart alias name and appended with the timestamp of when the dataset is uploaded. </p>
        <p>You can optionally configure the destination to use a Wave Analytics dataflow to combine
            multiple datasets together. You can also specify the metadata of the external data in a
            JSON format.</p>
        <p>You can optionally use an HTTP proxy to connect to Salesforce Wave Analytics. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
