<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ywx_d5x_pt">
 <title>Command Line Interface</title>
 <shortdesc>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
  /> provides a command line interface. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>command line
          interface<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>administration<indexterm>command
          line</indexterm></indexterm>You can use the following commands with the command line
      interface. Use the help command for details about each command. <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>definitions</dt>
          <dd>Provides the following command: <ul id="ul_yjm_nzx_pt">
              <li>list - Lists definitions of a pipeline and the stages available for use.</li>
            </ul><draft-comment author="Loretta">correct? it only lists installed
              stages?</draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>help</dt>
          <dd>Provides information about each command.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>manager</dt>
          <dd>Provides the following commands:<ul id="ul_u4z_51y_pt">
              <li>alerts - Returns all triggered alerts. </li>
              <li>delete-alerts - Clears triggered alerts. </li>
              <li>delete-history - Deletes the pipeline history.</li>
              <li>error-messages - <draft-comment author="Loretta">how is this different from error
                  records - returns just the message? </draft-comment></li>
              <li>error-records - Returns error records for the pipeline. You can request error
                records generated by a specific stage, records under a certain size.</li>
              <li>history - Returns the history of a pipeline.</li>
              <li>metrics - Returns pipeline metric information.</li>
              <li>reset-origin - Resets the origin when possible. </li>
              <li>sampled-records - Returns the records sampled for the pipeline.</li>
              <li>snapshot-capture - Captures a snapshot. </li>
              <li>snapshot-data - Returns the data captured for a snapshot.</li>
              <li>snapshot-delete - Deletes a snapshot.</li>
              <li>snapshot-list - Lists all snapshot information. </li>
              <li>snapshot-status - Returns the status of a snapshot.</li>
              <li>start - Starts a pipeline.</li>
              <li>status - Returns the status of a pipeline.</li>
              <li>stop - Stops a pipeline.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>ping</dt>
          <dd>Pings the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            />.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>preview</dt>
          <dd>Provides the following preview commands:<ul id="ul_edd_zwy_pt">
              <li>data - Returns preview data.</li>
              <li>run - Starts data preview. <draft-comment author="Loretta"
                >really?</draft-comment></li>
              <li>status - Returns the preview/validation status. </li>
              <li>stop - Stops the data preview.</li>
              <li>validate-pipeline - Performs explicit validation for a pipeline.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>store</dt>
          <dd>Provides the following commands:<ul id="ul_e3z_syy_pt">
              <li>create - Creates a pipeline.</li>
              <li>delete - Deletes a pipeline.</li>
              <li>export - Exports a pipeline.</li>
              <li>get-config - Returns pipeline configuration information.</li>
              <li>get-rules - Returns pipeline rules.</li>
              <li>import - Imports a pipeline.</li>
              <li>list - Lists information for all available pipelines.</li>
              <li>update-config - Updates pipeline configuration.</li>
              <li>update-rules - Imports pipeline rules defined in a separate file to the pipeline.
                The file must include pipeline rules defined in JSON.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>system</dt>
          <dd>Provides the following system commands:<ul id="ul_cvd_x1z_pt">
              <li>configuration - Returns properties defined in the <ph
                  conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
                properties file. </li>
              <li>current-user - Returns information about the user logged in to the command
                line.</li>
              <li>directories - Returns the <ph
                  conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
                directories. </li>
              <li>info - Returns build information for the <ph
                  conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                />.</li>
              <li>server-time - Returns the server time.</li>
              <li>shutdown - Shuts down the <ph
                  conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                />.</li>
              <li>threads - Returns a list of active threads, a.k.a, a thread dump. </li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
