<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dlh_p15_2r">
 <title>REST Response</title>
 <shortdesc>You can view REST response JSON data for different aspects of the <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>, such as
    pipeline configuration information or monitoring details. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>REST responses<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>You can use the REST
      response information to provide <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> details to
      a REST-based monitoring system. Or you might use the information in conjunction with the <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> REST API. </p>
    <p>You can access the following REST response data:<ul>
        <li>Pipeline Configuration - Provides information about the pipeline and each stage in the
          pipeline.</li>
        <li>Pipeline Rules - Provides information about metric and data rules and alerts. </li>
        <li>Definitions - Provides information about all available <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
          stages.</li>
        <li>Preview Data- Provides information about the preview data moving through the pipeline.
          Also includes monitoring information that is not used in preview.</li>
        <li>Pipeline Monitoring - Provides monitoring information for the pipeline.</li>
        <li>Pipeline Status - Provides the current status of the pipeline.</li>
        <li>JVM Metrics - Provides JVM metrics for the <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>.</li>
        <li>Thread Dump - Lists all active Java threads used by the <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
