<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_o5w_1pc_yz">
 <title>Customizing Generators</title>
 <shortdesc>By default, the generators redact all passwords entered in pipelines, configuration
        files, or resource files. You can customize the generators to redact other sensitive
        information, such as machine names or usernames.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>To customize the generators, modify the support bundle redactor file,
                <systemoutput>$SDC_CONF/support-bundle-redactor.json</systemoutput>. The file
            contains rules that the generators use to redact sensitive information. Each rule
            contains the following information:</p>
        <ul id="ul_kq2_fq1_11b">
            <li>description - Description of the rule.</li>
            <li>trigger - String constant that triggers a redaction. If a line contains this trigger
                string, then the redaction continues by applying the regular expression specified in
                the search property.</li>
            <li>search - Regular expression that defines the sub-string to redact.</li>
            <li>replace - String to replace the redacted information with.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>You can add additional rules that the generators use to redact information. For example,
            to customize the generators to redact the names of all machines in the StreamSets
            domain, add the following rule to the
            file:<codeblock>{
"description": "Custom domain names",
"trigger": ".streamsets.com",
"search": "[a-z_-]+.streamsets.com",
"replace": "REDACTED.streamsets.com"
}</codeblock></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
