<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_szj_3mw_xz">
 <title>Support Bundles</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>support
                    bundles<indexterm>generating</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>generators<indexterm>support
                    bundles</indexterm></indexterm>You can use <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            generate a support bundle. A support bundle is a ZIP file that includes <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            logs, environment and configuration information, pipeline JSON files, resource files,
            and pipeline snapshots. You upload the generated file to the StreamSets support team so
            that we can use the information to troubleshoot your support tickets. Or, you can
            download the generated file and then send the file to another StreamSets community
            member.</p>
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            uses several generators to create a support bundle. Each generator bundles different
            types of information. You can choose to use all or some of the generators. </p>
        <p>Each generator automatically redacts all passwords entered in pipelines, configuration
            files, or resource files. The generators replace all passwords with the text "REDACTED"
            in the generated files. You can customize the generators to redact other sensitive
            information, such as machine names or usernames.</p>
        <p>Before uploading a generated ZIP file to support, we recommend verifying that the file
            does not include any other sensitive information that you do not want to share.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
