<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dlh_p15_2r">
 <title>REST Response</title>
 <shortdesc>You can view the REST response that the <ph
   conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> console uses to
  generate displays. The REST response is JSON data that you can send to a StreamSets client
  services member to help troubleshoot issues. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <draft-comment author="Loretta">access point, different types. move the following into a
    subheading? </draft-comment>
  </p>
  <p>You can view the following types of REST responses:<ul id="ul_flz_mn5_2r">
    <li>Pipeline Configuration - Provides information about the pipeline and each stage in the
     pipeline.</li>
    <li>Pipeline Rules - Provides information about metric and data rules and alerts. </li>
    <li>Definitions - Provides information about all available <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> stages.</li>
    <li>Pipeline Preview - Provides information about the preview data moving through the pipeline.
     Also includes monitoring information that is not used in preview.</li>
    <li>Pipeline Monitoring - Provides monitoring information for the pipeline.</li>
    <li>Pipeline Status - Provides the current status of the pipeline.</li>
    <li>JVM Metrics - Provides JVM metrics for the <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>.</li>
   </ul></p>
  <p>Different REST responses are available at different locations in the <ph
    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> console. The
   following table lists the types of JSON data that you can generate:<table frame="all" rowsep="1"
    colsep="1" id="table_gqf_xb3_fr">
    <tgroup cols="2">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Data Collector Console location</entry>
       <entry>REST Response</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>Pipeline Configuration</entry>
       <entry>Pipeline Configuration<p>Pipeline Rules</p><p>Definitions</p></entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Data Preview</entry>
       <entry>Pipeline Preview</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Pipeline Monitoring</entry>
       <entry>Pipeline Monitoring<p>Pipeline Status</p><p>Pipeline Configuration</p><p>Pipeline
         Rules</p><p>Definitions </p></entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Viewing JVM Metrics</entry>
       <entry>JVM Metrics</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
