<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_opg_yrm_25">
    <title>Step 3. Distribute and Activate the StreamSets Parcel</title>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p><indexterm>Cloudera Manager<indexterm>distribute and activate the
                    parcel</indexterm></indexterm>After you add the StreamSets repository to
                Cloudera Manager, you can download, distribute, and activate the StreamSets parcel
                across the cluster.</p>
            <p>
                <note>The StreamSets parcel repository is added to Cloudera Manager during the
                    installation of the CSD. However, if installing the parcel before the CSD, the
                    StreamSets parcel repository URL is located at: <xref
                        href="https://archives.streamsets.com/index.html" format="html"
                        scope="external"/>. Download the correct parcel type for the operating
                    system that you use.</note>
            </p>
            <p>When working with multiple clusters, perform the following steps for each
                cluster.</p>
        </context>
        <steps id="steps_zj3_4sm_25">
            <step>
                <cmd>To view the list of available parcels, in the menu bar, click the
                        <uicontrol>Parcels</uicontrol> icon. </cmd>
                <info>The StreamSets parcel displays in the list of available parcels. If it doesn't
                    display, click <uicontrol>Check for New Parcels</uicontrol>.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To download the StreamSets parcel to the local repository, click
                        <uicontrol>Download</uicontrol>.</cmd>
                <info>After the parcel is downloaded, the Download button becomes the Distribute
                    button.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To distribute the StreamSets parcel to the cluster, click
                        <uicontrol>Distribute</uicontrol>. </cmd>
                <info>After distribution, the Distribute button becomes the Activate button.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To activate the StreamSets parcel, click <uicontrol>Activate</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
