<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kpp_4zp_fbb">
 <title>Step 3. Connect to a Secure MapR Cluster</title>
 <shortdesc>To connect to a secure MapR cluster enabled for wire-level security and
        username/password authentication, you must configure <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to run
        as the user account granted access to the cluster in the MapR user or service ticket. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p>A secure MapR cluster implements authentication with the following types of tickets: </p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>User tickets</dt>
                <dd>Each user account uses a generated user ticket to authenticate with the cluster.
                    To run MapR commands in the cluster, <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> can run as a user account granted access in a MapR user ticket. For example,
                    if a user ticket is generated for the "myuser" user account, then configure <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> to run as the "myuser" user account.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Service tickets</dt>
                <dd>Applications that run outside of the MapR cluster - such as <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> - can use service tickets to authenticate with the cluster. To run MapR
                    commands in the cluster, <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> can run as the user account granted access in the MapR service ticket.</dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>For example, let's say that you ran the following MapR command to generate
                        the service ticket for applications running outside of the
                        cluster:<codeblock>maprlogin generateticket -type service -out /tmp/longlived_ticket -duration 30:0:0 -renewal 90:0:0
MapR credentials of user 'myappuser' for cluster 'mycluster' are written to '/tmp/longlived_ticket'</codeblock></p>
                    <p>You then configure <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> to run as the "myappuser" user account.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>For more information about MapR user and service tickets, see the <xref
                href="https://maprdocs.mapr.com/home/SecurityGuide/Tickets.html" format="html"
                scope="external">MapR documentation</xref>.</p>
        <p>Configure <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            run as the required user account based on your installation type:</p>
        <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Tarball (manual start)</dt>
                    <dd>When <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> is installed from the tarball and started manually, <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> runs as the system user account logged into the command prompt when you
                        use the following launch
                        command:<codeblock>$SDC_DIST/bin/streamsets dc</codeblock>To connect to a
                        secure MapR cluster enabled for wire-level security and username/password
                        authentication, you can log into the command prompt as the user account
                        granted access in the MapR user or service ticket. Or, you can impersonate
                        the required user account by using the following launch command, where
                        &lt;user> is the user account granted access in the MapR user or service
                            ticket:<codeblock>sudo -u &lt;user> $SDC_DIST/bin/streamsets dc</codeblock><p>For
                            example:<codeblock>sudo -u myappuser /opt/streamsets-datacollector-<ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/version"/>/bin/streamsets dc</codeblock></p></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>RPM package or tarball (service start)</dt>
                    <dd>When <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> is installed from the RPM package or from the tarball and started as a
                        service, <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> runs as the system user account and group defined in environment
                        variables. The default system user and group are named sdc.</dd>
                    <dd>To connect to a secure MapR cluster enabled for wire-level security and
                        username/password authentication, set the user environment variable to the
                        system user account granted access in the MapR user or service ticket. Set
                        the group environment variable to the system group that the user account
                        belongs to.</dd>
                    <dd>For instructions on setting the user and group environment variables, see
                            <xref
                            href="../Configuration/DCUserGroupServiceStart.dita#concept_htz_t1s_3v"
                        />.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
