<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_jgs_qpg_2v">
 <title>MapR Prerequisites</title>
    <shortdesc>Due to licensing restrictions, StreamSets cannot distribute MapR libraries with <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>. As a
        result, you must perform additional steps to enable the <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
        machine to connect to MapR.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>MapR<indexterm>prerequisites</indexterm></indexterm>You must install the
            required client libraries and then run the <codeph>setup-mapr</codeph> command. The
            command modifies configuration files and creates the required symbolic links. If the
            MapR cluster uses username/password login authentication, you must enable <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            use username/password authentication.</p>
       <p><note>The MapR FS destination supports MapR versions 5.0.0, 5.1.0 and 5.2.0. All other stages that
                use the MapR library currently only support MapR versions 5.1.0 and 5.2.0.</note></p>
        <p>
            <ol id="ol_o2r_nq4_vw">
                <li>Install <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> on a node in the MapR cluster or on a client machine.<p>To run <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> on a client machine - outside the cluster or on your local machine - the
                        MapR client package must be installed and configured on the machine. If the
                        MapR client package is not installed on the machine, download and install
                        the following files:<ul id="ul_qcz_x1m_gv">
                            <li>MapR client library - Typically named
                                    <codeph>mapr-client_&lt;version>.&lt;ext></codeph>.<p>You can
                                    download the files for your operating system
                                    here:<codeblock><xref href="http://package.mapr.com/releases/" format="html" scope="external"/>&lt;version>/</codeblock></p></li>
                            <li>Kafka client library - Typically named
                                    <codeph>mapr-kafka-&lt;version>.&lt;ext></codeph>. <p>You can
                                    download the files for your operating system here:
                                    <codeblock><xref href="http://package.mapr.com/releases/" format="html" scope="external"/>ecosystem-&lt;version>/</codeblock></p></li>
                        </ul></p></li>
                <li>Use the following command to set the <codeph>$SDC_HOME</codeph> environment
                    variable to the location where you installed <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        />:<codeblock>export SDC_HOME=&lt;installation directory></codeblock><p>For
                        example:<codeblock>export SDC_HOME=/opt/streamsets-datacollector</codeblock></p><note>The
                        default installation directory for an RPM installation is
                            <codeph>/opt/streamsets-datacollector</codeph>. The tarball installation
                        directory is the location where you extracted the file.</note></li>
                <li>Use the following command to set the <codeph>$SDC_CONF</codeph> environment
                    variable to the <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> configuration
                        directory:<codeblock>export SDC_CONF=&lt;configuration directory></codeblock><p>For
                        example:<codeblock>export SDC_CONF=/etc/sdc</codeblock></p><note>The default
                        configuration directory for an RPM installation is
                        <codeph>/etc/sdc</codeph>. If you followed the instructions for a tarball
                        installation for a service start, the default configuration directory is
                            <codeph>/etc/sdc</codeph>. The default configuration directory for a
                        tarball installation for a manual start is <codeph>$SDC_DIST/etc</codeph>.
                        However, as a best practice, you should modify the configuration directory
                        so that it is outside of the installation directory.</note></li>
                <li>Use the following command to set up
                    MapR:<codeblock>$SDC_DIST/bin/streamsets setup-mapr</codeblock></li>
                <li>When prompted, enter 5.0.0, 5.1.0, or 5.2.0 for the MapR version.</li>
                <li>When prompted, enter the absolute path to the MapR home directory, usually
                    /opt/mapr.</li>
                <li>If the MapR cluster uses username/password login authentication, uncomment the
                    following line in the environment configuration file,
                        <codeph>sdc-env.sh</codeph> or <codeph>sdcd-env.sh</codeph>, located in the
                        <codeph>$SDC_DIST/libexec</codeph> directory:
                    <codeblock>#export SDC_JAVA_OPTS="-Dmaprlogin.password.enabled=true"</codeblock></li>
                <li>Restart <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> and verify that you can see the MapR origins and destinations in the stage
                    library.</li>
            </ol>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
