<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_al3_qz5_jz">
 <title>Configuring the Open File Limit</title>
 <shortdesc><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
        requires a large number of file descriptors to work correctly with all stages. Most
        operating systems provide a configuration to limit the number of files a process or a user
        can open. The default values are usually less than the <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
        requirement of <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-MinFileDescriptors"
        /> file descriptors. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>open file
                    limit<indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>ulimit<indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>file
                    descriptors<indexterm>increasing</indexterm></indexterm>Use the following
            command to verify the configured limit for the current user:
            <codeblock>ulimit -n</codeblock></p>
        <p>Most operating systems use two ways of configuring the maximum number of open files - the
            soft limit and the hard limit. The hard limit is set by the system administrator. The
            soft limit can be set by the user, but only up to the hard limit.</p>
        <p>Increasing the open file limit differs for each operating system. Consult your operating
            system documentation for the preferred method.</p>
        <section id="section_kjp_yz5_jz">
            <title>Increase the Limit on Linux </title>
            <p>To increase the open file limit on Linux, see the following solution: <xref
                    href="https://access.redhat.com/solutions/61334" format="html" scope="external"
                    >How to set ulimit values</xref>.</p>
            <p>This solution should work on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, and Ubuntu. However,
                refer to the administrator documentation for your operating system for the preferred
                method.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_oyd_5z5_jz">
            <title>Increase the Limit on Mac OS</title>
            <p>The method you use to increase the limit on Mac OS can differ with each version.
                Refer to the documentation for your operating system version for the preferred
                method.</p>
            <p>To increase the limit for the computer - so that the limits are retained after
                relaunching the terminal and restarting the computer - create a property list file.
                The following steps are valid for Mac OS Yosemite, El Capitan, and Sierra:</p>
            <ol id="ol_b3j_sc5_lz">
                <li>Use the following command to create a property list file named
                        <codeph>limit.maxfiles.plist</codeph>:<codeblock>sudo vim /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxfiles.plist</codeblock></li>
                <li>Add the following contents to the file, modifying the <codeph>maxfiles</codeph>
                    attribute as needed.<p>The maxfiles attribute defines the open file limit. The
                        first value in the file is the soft limit. The second value is the hard
                        limit.</p><p>For example, in the following
                            <codeph>limit.maxfiles.plist</codeph> file, both the soft and hard limit
                        are set to
                    32,768:</p><codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
&lt;plist version="1.0">
  &lt;dict>
    &lt;key>Label&lt;/key>
    &lt;string>limit.maxfiles&lt;/string>
    &lt;key>ProgramArguments&lt;/key>
    &lt;array>
      &lt;string>launchctl&lt;/string>
      &lt;string>limit&lt;/string>
      &lt;string>maxfiles&lt;/string>
      &lt;string>32768&lt;/string>
      &lt;string>32768&lt;/string>
    &lt;/array>
    &lt;key>RunAtLoad&lt;/key>
    &lt;true/>
    &lt;key>ServiceIPC&lt;/key>
    &lt;false/>
  &lt;/dict>
&lt;/plist></codeblock></li>
                <li>Use the following commands to load the new
                    settings:<codeblock>sudo launchctl unload -w /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxfiles.plist
sudo launchctl load -w /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxfiles.plist</codeblock></li>
                <li>Use the following command to check that the system limits were
                    modified:<codeblock>launchctl limit maxfiles</codeblock></li>
                <li>Use the following command to set the session
                    limit:<codeblock>ulimit -n 32768</codeblock></li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
