<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_mxg_ltf_pbb">
    <title>Step 1. Create and Start a Data Collector Receiving Pipeline</title>
    <shortdesc>Edge sending pipelines work in tandem with <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
        pipelines. So after choosing the sample edge pipeline that you want to use, create and start
        the corresponding <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
        receiving pipeline. The <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
        receiving pipeline must start before the edge sending pipeline.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>In <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    />, create a new pipeline.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab, select
                        <uicontrol>Standalone</uicontrol> for the <uicontrol>Execution
                        Mode</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On the <uicontrol>Error Records</uicontrol> tab, select
                        <uicontrol>Discard</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Write to File</uicontrol>, or
                        <uicontrol>Write to MQTT</uicontrol> for the error record handling.</cmd>
                <info>If writing the error records to file or MQTT, click the appropriate error
                    records tab and configure the required properties.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Configure the remaining pipeline properties as needed.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Add the corresponding origin to read from the destination in the sample edge
                    pipeline.</cmd>
                <info>To receive data from the Directory Spooler to HTTP sample pipeline - which
                    uses an HTTP Client destination defined - add an HTTP Server origin. </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Configure the origin properties used to receive the data.</cmd>
                <info>To receive data from the Directory Spooler to HTTP sample pipeline, on the
                        <uicontrol>HTTP</uicontrol> tab of the HTTP Server origin, enter a unique
                    port number for the <uicontrol>HTTP Listening Port</uicontrol> and enter a
                    unique application ID for the <uicontrol>Application ID</uicontrol>.<p>When you
                        start the sample edge pipeline, you'll use runtime parameters to specify the
                        same values for the corresponding destination.</p></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On the <uicontrol>Data Format</uicontrol> tab, select JSON or Text based on the
                    sample edge pipeline.</cmd>
                <info>For the Directory Spooler to HTTP pipeline template, select JSON.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Add and configure any number of processors, executors, and destinations.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Validate the pipeline, and then click the <uicontrol>Start</uicontrol> icon to
                    start the pipeline.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
