<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hmh_kfn_1s">
 <title>Cluster Execution Mode</title>
 <shortdesc>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
  /> can run standalone mode or cluster mode. In standalone mode, the <ph
   conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> runs as a
  single <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
  process. The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
  runs in standalone mode by default. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>execution mode<indexterm>standalone and cluster
    modes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cluster
    mode<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>standalone
     mode<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>In cluster mode, the <ph
    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> runs as an
   application within Spark Streaming, allowing it to process large volumes of data from a Kafka
   cluster. </p>
  <p>Spark Streaming is an open source cluster-computing application. Within Spark Streaming, the
    <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> spawns a
    <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> worker for
   each partition in the Kafka cluster. So each partition has a <ph
    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> worker to
   process data. </p>
  <p>An example architecture might be as follows. Say you want to ingest logs from applications
   servers and perform a computationally expensive transformation. To accomplish this, use a
   standalone <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
   on each application server to push the log records to Kafka. Then on the Kafka cluster, use the
    <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> in cluster
   mode to perform the expensive transformation.</p>
  <p>Cluster mode is supported on Kafka CDH at this time. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
