<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_wvz_rfp_tq">
    <title>Capturing and Viewing a Snapshot</title>
    <shortdesc>You can capture a snapshot of data as it passes through the pipeline. You can capture
        up to ten snapshots. You can review the snapshot data stage by stage or through a group of
        stages, like data preview. You can also delete snapshot data.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p><indexterm>snapshot<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>View a snapshot of data
                to verify how the pipeline processes data. In the Monitor panel, you can drill down
                to review the values of each record to determine if the stage or group of stages
                transform data as expected.</p>
        </context>
        <steps id="steps_esy_44p_tq">
            <step>
                <cmd>From the pipeline canvas of a running pipeline, click the
                        <uicontrol>Snapshots</uicontrol> icon.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>In the <wintitle>Snapshots</wintitle> dialog box, optionally click
                        <uicontrol>Capture Snapshot</uicontrol> to capture a new set of data.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Click <uicontrol>View</uicontrol> for the snapshot of data that you want to
                    use.</cmd>
                <stepresult>The canvas highlights the origin stage of the pipeline. The Monitor
                    panel displays snapshot data in the Output Data column. Since this is the origin
                    of the pipeline, no input data displays.</stepresult>
            </step>
            <step conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableSteps.dita#task_kzs_5vz_sq/NextStage">
                <cmd/>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To view the snapshot for multiple stages, click
                    <uicontrol>Multiple</uicontrol>.</cmd>
                <info>The Preview panel displays two lists of stages:<ol id="ol_nww_4rp_tq">
                        <li>From the list on the left, select the first stage to include.</li>
                        <li>In the list on the right, select the last stage to include.</li>
                    </ol></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To review data from a different snapshot, on the upper left side of the monitor
                    panel, select a different snapshot name</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To exit the snapshot review, click <uicontrol>Close Snapshot</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            </step>

        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
