<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_ut4_gvw_2cb">
    <title>Downloading a Snapshot</title>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p><indexterm>snapshots<indexterm>downloading</indexterm></indexterm>When needed, you
                can download a snapshot. You might download a snapshot from a production <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> so you can review it on a development <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                />.</p>
            <p>When you download a snapshot, it downloads to the default download location on the
                    <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> machine.</p>
            <p>Downloaded snapshots use the following naming convention: <codeph>&lt;pipeline
                    id>_&lt;snapshot name>.json</codeph>. </p>
            <p>The pipeline ID is the original title for the pipeline followed by a UUID. </p>
            <p>For standard snapshots, the snapshot name is "snapshot" followed by the epoch
                timestamp of when the snapshot was taken. For example, a standard snapshot
                downloaded for the Oracle to Google Cloud pipeline might have the following
                name:<codeblock>OracletoGoogleCloud_f116d713-372c-4105-ad03-e042c47dc72b_snapshot1513289740553.json</codeblock></p>
            <p>For failure snapshots, the snapshot name is "Failure_" followed by a UUID. For
                example, a failure snapshot downloaded for the AWS pipeline might have the following
                name:
                <codeblock>AWSa81167ba-be03-4f74-8028-2f5b0439e6a9_Failure_6c7912ee-c4f7-4aee-b67f-0b0e587bc91e.json</codeblock></p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>From the pipeline canvas of a running pipeline, click the
                        <uicontrol>Snapshots</uicontrol> icon. Or, from the canvas of a stopped
                    pipeline, click the <uicontrol>More icon</uicontrol> and then click
                        <uicontrol>Snapshots</uicontrol>.</cmd>
                <info>The Snapshots window displays all available snapshots for the pipeline.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>In the <wintitle>Snapshots</wintitle> window, click
                        <uicontrol>Download</uicontrol> for the snapshot that you want to
                    download.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
