<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_pkh_j23_tq">
    <title>Viewing Pipeline and Stage Statistics</title>
    <shortdesc>When you monitor a pipeline, you can view real-time summary and error statistics for
        the pipeline and for stages in the pipeline.  </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p><indexterm>monitoring<indexterm>viewing statistics</indexterm></indexterm>By default,
                the <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> UI displays pipeline monitoring information when it runs a pipeline. You can
                select a stage to view the statistics about the stage. Similarly, you can view error
                information for the pipeline and its stages. </p>
            <p>The Monitor panel displays statistics on the following tabs:<dl>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Summary</dt>
                        <dd>
                            <p>For a pipeline, displays the record count for the pipeline, record
                                and batch throughput, batch processing statistics, and heap memory
                                usage. For a pipeline started with runtime parameters, displays the
                                parameter values that the pipeline is currently using.</p>
                            <p>For a stage, displays record and batch throughput, batch processing
                                statistics, and heap memory usage.<note outputclass="" type="tip"
                                    >You can hover over different parts of the charts to view exact
                                    numbers.</note></p>
                            <p>Note that the record and batch throughput graphs are calculated using
                                an exponential moving average, weighing more heavily toward the most
                                recent values and exponentially reducing the effect of old data. For
                                more information, see <xref
                                    href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moving_average#Exponential_moving_average"
                                    format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
                        </dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Error</dt>
                        <dd>For a pipeline, displays histograms for the number of error records by
                            five minute decay and the number of error records by stage since the
                            pipeline started. </dd>
                        <dd>For a stage, displays the number of error records and the number of
                            stage errors. </dd>
                    </dlentry>
                </dl></p>
        </context>
    </taskbody>
</task>
