<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kzc_4sd_yy">
 <title>What's New in 2.4.0.0</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>what's new<indexterm>version 2.4.0.0</indexterm></indexterm><ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            version 2.4.0.0 includes the following new features and enhancements:</p>
        <p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Pipeline Sharing and Permissions</dt>
                    <dd>Data Collector now provides pipeline-level permissions. Permissions
                        determine the access level that users and groups have on pipelines. To
                        create a multitenant environment, create groups of users and then share
                        pipelines with the groups to grant different levels of access.</dd>
                    <dd>With this change, only the pipeline owner and users with the Admin role can
                        view a pipeline by default. If upgrading from a previous version of Data
                        Collector, see the following post-upgrade task, <xref
                            href="../Upgrade/2400-PipelinePermissions.dita#concept_zbn_fpw_xy"
                            >Configure Pipeline Permissions</xref>.</dd>
                    <dd>This feature includes the following components:<ul id="ul_qhv_ds1_cz">
                            <li><xref href="../Configuration/Permissions.dita#concept_i1p_hzd_yy"
                                    >Pipeline permissions</xref> - Pipelines now have read, write,
                                and execute permissions. Pipeline permissions overlay existing Data
                                Collector roles to provide greater security. For information, see
                                    <xref
                                    href="../Configuration/RolesandPermissions.dita#concept_k1r_prc_yy"
                                />.</li>
                            <li><xref
                                    href="../Pipeline_Maintenance/SharingPipelines.dita#concept_jrg_1vy_wy"
                                    >Pipeline sharing</xref> - The pipeline owner and users with the
                                Admin role can configure pipeline permissions for users and
                                groups.</li>
                            <li><xref
                                    href="../Configuration/ConfiguringDataCollector.dita#task_lxk_kjw_1r"
                                    >Data Collector pipeline access control property</xref> - You
                                can enable and disable the use of pipeline permissions with the
                                pipeline.access.control.enabled configuration property. By default,
                                this property is enabled.</li>
                            <li><xref
                                    href="../Configuration/TransferPipePermissions.dita#concept_p11_msc_1z"
                                    >Permissions transfer</xref> - You can transfer all pipeline
                                permissions associated with a user or group to a different user or
                                group. Use pipeline transfer to easily migrate permissions after
                                registering with DPM or after a user or group becomes obsolete.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Dataflow Performance Manager (DPM)</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <ul id="ul_f3t_zs1_cz">
                            <li><xref href="../DPM/RegisterFromDataCollector.dita#task_a4y_v1g_xw"
                                    >Register Data Collectors with DPM</xref> - If Data Collector
                                uses file-based authentication and if you register the Data
                                Collector from the Data Collector UI, you can now create DPM user
                                accounts and groups during the registration process.</li>
                            <li><xref href="../DPM/AggStatistics_SDCRPC.dita#concept_c53_pzp_yy"
                                    >Aggregated statistics for DPM</xref> - When working with DPM,
                                you can now configure a pipeline to write aggregated statistics to
                                SDC RPC. Write statistics to SDC RPC for development purposes only.
                                For a production environment, use a Kafka cluster or Amazon Kinesis
                                Streams to aggregate statistics.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Origins</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <ul id="ul_ad3_kt1_cz">
                            <li><xref href="../Pipeline_Design/DevStages.dita#concept_czx_ktn_ht"
                                    >Dev SDC RPC with Buffering origin</xref> - A new development
                                stage that receives records from an SDC RPC destination, temporarily
                                buffering the records to disk before passing the records to the next
                                stage in the pipeline. Use as the origin in an SDC RPC destination
                                pipeline.</li>
                            <li><xref href="../Origins/AmazonS3-Configuring.dita#task_gfj_ssv_yq"
                                    >Amazon S3 origin enhancement</xref> - You can configure a new
                                File Pool Size property to determine the maximum number of files
                                that the origin stores in memory for processing after loading and
                                sorting all files present on S3.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Other</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <ul id="ul_hsj_tt1_cz">
                            <li><xref
                                    href="../Installation/AvailableStageLibraries.dita#concept_evs_xkm_s5"
                                    >New stage libraries</xref> - This release supports the
                                following new stage libraries:<ul id="ul_xrv_5t1_cz">
                                    <li dir="ltr">Kudu versions 1.1 and 1.2</li>
                                    <li>
                                        <p dir="ltr">Cloudera CDH version 5.10 distribution of
                                            Hadoop</p>
                                    </li>
                                    <li dir="ltr">Cloudera version 5.10 distribution of Apache Kafka
                                        2.1</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li><xref href="../Configuration/ExternalLibs.dita#concept_pdv_qlw_ft"
                                    >Install external libraries using the Data Collector user
                                    interface</xref> - You can now use the Data Collector user
                                interface to install external libraries to make them available to
                                stages. For example, you can install JDBC drivers for stages that
                                use JDBC connections. Or, you can install external libraries to call
                                external Java code from the Groovy, Java, and Jython Evaluator
                                processors.</li>
                            <li><xref
                                    href="../Configuration/ConfiguringDataCollector.dita#task_lxk_kjw_1r"
                                    >Custom header enhancement</xref> - You can now use HTML in the
                                ui.header.title configuration property to configure a custom header
                                for the <ph
                                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                /> UI. This allows you to specify the look and feel for any text
                                that you use, and to include small images in the header. </li>
                            <li><xref href="../Processors/Groovy-Configuring.dita#task_asl_bpt_gv"
                                    >Groovy enhancement</xref> - You can configure the processor to
                                use the invokedynamic bytecode instruction.</li>
                            <li>Pipeline renaming - You can now rename a pipeline by clicking
                                directly on the pipeline name when editing the pipeline, in addition
                                to editing the Title general pipeline property.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
