<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_uzp_gfj_fbb">
 <title>Step 2. Configure the Credential Store Properties</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>CyberArk<indexterm>properties file</indexterm></indexterm>To enable <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            connect to the CyberArk credential store, configure the CyberArk properties in the
                <codeph>$SDC_CONF/credential-stores.properties</codeph> file.<note type="important"
                    ><ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/Reusable_Topics/CredentialStores_Reusable.dita#concept_jjh_crs_r1b/CMNote"/>
                <codeblock>credentialStores=cyberark</codeblock></note></p><ol>
                <li>Uncomment the <codeph>credentialStores</codeph> property in the file.<p>If
                    enabling only the CyberArk credential store, set the property to "cyberark". If
                    enabling multiple credential stores, set the property to each credential store
                    type. For example, to use both the Java keystore and the CyberArk credential
                    stores, set the value to "jks,cyberark". </p></li>
                <li>Configure the following properties in the CyberArk Credential Store section of
                the file. <p>The web service URL and application ID are required properties.
                    Configure other properties as needed.</p><p>The file includes the following
                    properties. Uncomment any properties that you want to use: </p><table
                    frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_spl_ycl_r1b">
                    <tgroup cols="2">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="2.3*"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.7*"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>CyberArk Property</entry>
                                <entry>Description</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.credential.refresh.millis</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Number of milliseconds that <ph
                                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                    /> locally caches a credential. When the time expires, <ph
                                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                    /> retrieves the credential from CyberArk.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.credential.retry.millis</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Number of milliseconds that <ph
                                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                    /> waits before attempting to retry a retrieval of a credential
                                    from CyberArk, in the case of an error.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.connector</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Connector type to CyberArk. Leave the default of
                                    “webservices” since only web services is currently
                                    supported.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.url</entry>
                                <entry>Required. CyberArk Central Credential Provider web service
                                    URL. <p>Use the following
                                    format:</p><codeblock>https://&lt;host name>:&lt;port>/AIMWebService/api/Accounts</codeblock></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.appId</entry>
                                <entry>Required. CyberArk application ID for this <ph
                                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                    />. You must create the application ID in CyberArk.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.maxConcurrentConnections</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Maximum number of concurrent web service calls that
                                        <ph
                                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                    /> can make to CyberArk.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.validateAfterInactivity.millis</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Number of milliseconds of inactivity before <ph
                                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                    /> validates the HTTP connection to CyberArk.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.connectionTimeout.millis</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Number of milliseconds to wait for a connection to
                                    CyberArk.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.nameSeparator</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Separator to use for the CyberArk safe, folder,
                                    object name, and element name values in the credential name
                                    argument used by the credential functions.<p>Use the following
                                        format for the name
                                        argument:<codeblock>&lt;safe>&lt;separator>&lt;folder>&lt;separator>&lt;object name>&lt;separator>&lt;element name></codeblock></p><p>For
                                        example, if you keep the default ampersand (&amp;), the
                                        format for the name argument
                                        is:<codeblock>&lt;safe>&amp;&lt;folder>&amp;&lt;object name>&amp;&lt;element name></codeblock></p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.http.authentication</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Authentication type used by the CyberArk Central
                                    Credential Provider web services: none, basic, or
                                        digest.<p>Default is none.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.http.authentication.user</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Username if using basic or digest
                                    authentication.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.http.authentication.password</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Password if using basic or digest
                                    authentication.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.truststoreFile</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Path to the truststore file if using HTTPS and the
                                    server certificate is using a private CA or is not trusted by
                                    the Java default truststore file.<p>Enter a path relative to the
                                            <ph
                                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                        /> configuration directory, <codeph>$SDC_CONF</codeph>, or
                                        enter an absolute path.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.truststorePassword</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Password for the truststore file.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.supportedProtocols</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. SSL/TLS-enabled protocols. Versions TLSv1.2 or
                                    later are recommended.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.hostnameVerifier.skip</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Determines whether the host name of the CyberArk
                                    Central Credential Provider web services should be verified
                                    against the domain defined in the HTTPS certificate.<p>By
                                        default, the host name is verified.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.keystoreFile</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. If using HTTPS and the CyberArk Central Credential
                                    Provider web services requires client side certificates, the
                                    path to the keystore file that contains the client certificate.
                                        <p>Enter a path relative to the <ph
                                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                                        /> configuration directory, <codeph>$SDC_CONF</codeph>, or
                                        enter an absolute path.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.keystorePassword</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Password for the keystore file.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>credentialStore.cyberark.config.ws.keyPassword</entry>
                                <entry>Optional. Password to access the certificate within the
                                    keystore file.</entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table></li>
                <li>Restart <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> to enable the changes.</li>
            </ol>
 </conbody>
</concept>
