<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bt1_bpj_r1b">
 <title>Credential Stores</title>
 <shortdesc><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
        pipeline stages communicate with external systems to read and write data. Many of these
        external systems require credentials - user names or passwords - to access the data. When
        you configure pipeline stages for these external systems, you define the credentials that
        the stage uses to connect to the system.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>credential
                    stores<indexterm>using</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>credentials<indexterm>defining</indexterm></indexterm>If
            you enter credential values directly in stage properties, you expose the credentials to
            any user with access to the pipeline. To access external systems without exposing the
            credentials, define credentials in a credential store and then use the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            <xref href="../Expression_Language/CredentialFunctions.dita#concept_yvc_3qs_r1b"
                >credential functions</xref> in the stage properties to retrieve those values. </p>
     
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> has
            a credential store API that integrates with the following credential store systems:<ul
                id="ul_sgq_wqs_51b">
                <li><xref href="CredentialStores-CyberArk.dita#concept_v21_nvd_fbb">CyberArk</xref>
                    - Securely store credentials in CyberArk.</li>
                <li><xref href="CredentialStores-JKS.dita#concept_b3c_m2n_r1b">Java keystore</xref>
                    - Securely store credentials in a Java keystore file.</li>
                <li><xref href="CredentialStores-Vault.dita#concept_s3y_dps_51b">Vault</xref> -
                    Securely store credentials in Hashicorp Vault.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>
            <note type="important">Use the Java keystore credential store system in a development
                environment only. In a production environment, use the CyberArk or Vault credential
                store system to better secure credentials.</note>
        </p>
        <p>You can configure a <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            use multiple credential stores at the same time. Each credential store is identified by
            a unique ID.</p>
            <note type="tip">When you define credentials in a credential store instead of directly
                in stage properties, you also make it easier to migrate pipelines to another
                environment. For example, if you migrate multiple pipelines from a development to a
                production environment, you do not need to edit each pipeline to define the correct
                credentials for the production environment. You can simply replace the development
                credentials store with the production version.</note>
 </conbody>
</concept>
