<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pdv_qlw_ft">
 <title>Install External Libraries </title>
 <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>drivers<indexterm>installing additional for
        stages</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>external libraries<indexterm>installing additional
          for stages</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>third party libraries<indexterm>installing
          additional for stages</indexterm></indexterm>Install external libraries to make them
      available to <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> stages.
      When using multiple stage libraries for a particular stage, to make external libraries
      available to all versions of the stage, install the external libraries for each stage library. </p>
    <p>You can install external libraries using the Package Manager in the <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> user
      interface, or you can install them manually.</p>
    <p>You can install external libraries for the following stages: <ul id="ul_epd_gyd_d1b">
        <li>
          <p>Before you use the following stages, install JDBC drivers for the implementation that
            you want to use: <ul
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ul_JDBCStages"
              id="ul_f1l_fnb_cz">
              <li/>
            </ul></p>
          <p>For example, to use the JDBC Query Consumer or the JDBC Producer with Oracle, install
            the Oracle JDBC drivers.</p>
        </li>
        <li>Before you use the Hadoop FS origin to read from non-HDFS systems, install all required
          file system application JAR files. See the file system documentation for details about the
          files to install.</li>
        <li>Before you use the Spark Evaluator processor, install the Spark application JAR file and
          any dependencies other than the <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-SparkLibraries"
          />.</li>
        <li>You can install external Java libraries to call external Java code from the scripting
          processors: Groovy, Java, and Jython Evaluator.</li>
        <li>You can install the DataStax Enterprise (DSE) Java driver to configure the Cassandra
          destination to use DSE username and password authentication or Kerberos authentication. </li>
        <li>Before you use the Google Bigtable destination, install the BoringSSL library.</li>
        <li>Before you use the JMS Producer destination, install the JMS drivers for the
          implementation that you are using.  </li>
        <li>You can install the Impala JDBC driver under the stage library selected for the
          executor. For more information, see <xref
            href="../Executors/HiveQuery-InstallImpalaDriver.dita#concept_rfq_xk4_nbb"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
