<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_nsz_lp4_1r">
    <title>Step 2. Configure Users, Groups, and Roles</title>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p><indexterm>users<indexterm>creating for file-based
                    authentication</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>users<indexterm>default for
                        file-based
                        authentication</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>users<indexterm>roles for
                        file-based
                        authentication</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>roles<indexterm>for users
                        with file-based authentication</indexterm></indexterm>For file-based
                authentication, you configure the users that can log in to <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                />. You assign roles to each user account and you can optionally create and assign
                groups to the user accounts. </p>
            <p>Configure users, groups, and roles in the properties file for the type of
                authentication that you use:
                    <filepath>$SDC_CONF/&lt;authentication>-realm.properties</filepath>. </p>
            <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
                roles determine the tasks that a user can perform. <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> provides several default user accounts. You can change or remove these user
                accounts, or you can create new user accounts. For increased security, change the
                passwords for the default user accounts. </p>
            <p>You can also create groups and assign the groups to related user accounts. Use groups
                to easily assign pipeline permissions to groups of users. Pipeline permissions
                determine the pipeline access that each user has. </p>
            <p>For example, say you use file-based authentication and want to create an Ops group to
                manage pipelines. To handle this, when you configure users in the authentication
                properties file, you grant the Manager role and add the Ops group for each
                operations user. Then, you edit each pipeline they need to manage, assigning read
                and execute permission to the Ops group. For more information, see <xref
                    href="RolesandPermissions.dita#concept_k1r_prc_yy"/>.</p>
            <p>For file-based authentication, <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> provides the following user accounts with corresponding roles: <table
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableTables.dita#concept_wfr_rnw_yq/User-Roles"
                    id="table_ehn_sjl_yy">
                    <tgroup cols="1">
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry/>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table></p>
            <p>For file-based authentication, <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> also provides a default "all" group that includes every user, and a "dev" and
                "test" group. The following sample user accounts are available for the dev and test
                user groups:</p>
            <table conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableTables.dita#concept_wfr_rnw_yq/User-Groups"
                id="table_dmw_rjl_yy">
                <tgroup cols="1">
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry/>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p>Configure users and groups in the properties file for the type of authentication that
                you use. For example, if you use basic authentication, use the
                    <codeph>basic-realm.properties</codeph> file.</p>
            <p>To hash login information, you can use an md5 program such as md5 on Mac OS X or
                md5sum on Linux. </p>
            <p>For basic and form authentication, hash the password alone. For example:
                <codeblock>echo -n "&lt;password>" | md5</codeblock></p>
            <p>For digest authentication, hash the combination of &lt;user
                name>:&lt;realm>:&lt;password>, where &lt;realm> is the authentication type. </p>
            <p>For example, you might use the following
                command:<codeblock>echo -n "&lt;user name>:&lt;realm>:&lt;password>" | md5</codeblock></p>
            <p>as follows:</p>
            <p>
                <codeblock>echo -n "jdoe:digest-realm:JdoePass" | md5</codeblock>
            </p>
        </context>
        <steps id="steps_ody_3q4_1r">
            <step>
                <cmd>To configure users and groups, modify the properties file for the type of
                    authentication that you use. </cmd>
                <info>The file name is
                        <filepath>$SDC_CONF/&lt;authentication>-realm.properties</filepath>. </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>For each new user, add a user definition using the following format:</cmd>
                <info>
                    <codeblock>&lt;user name>: MD5:&lt;md5-text>, user, &lt;role> [, &lt;additional role>, &lt;additional role>...] [, group:&lt;group>, group:&lt;additional group>...]</codeblock>
                </info>
                <info>
                    <note>Assign one or more roles to each user. Be sure to include "user" in every
                        user definition.</note>
                    <p>For example, the following line defines a user named jsmith assigned the
                        creator role and to the Development
                        group:<codeblock>jsmith: MD5:6d0258c2440a7d19e916292b231e3190,user,creator,group:Development</codeblock></p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To make the new users available, restart <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    />.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
