<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ezd_ctd_yy">
 <title>Groups</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>groups<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>Use groups to easily assign
            pipeline permissions to a set of users. </p>
        <p>You assign users to groups differently based on the authentication method that you use
            with <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            />. When you use file-based authentication, you create a group by specifying it when you
            configure a user. When you use LDAP authentication, you configure groups in the LDAP
            system. </p>
        <p>Once groups are created, you can assign pipeline permissions to groups as well as
            individual users.</p>
        <p>For example, say you use file-based authentication and want to create an Ops group to
            manage pipelines. To handle this, when you configure users in the authentication
            properties file, you grant the Manager role and add the Ops group for each operations
            user. Then, you edit each pipeline they need to manage, assigning read and execute
            permission to the Ops group.</p>
        <p>Or, say you have an LDAP Developer group for all pipeline developers. When you configure
            the <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            /> LDAP properties, you assign the Creator role to the Developer group so they can
            create new pipelines. To allow the group to edit existing pipelines, you configure the
            permissions for each pipeline and assign read and write permission to the Developer
            group.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
