<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xxz_vlr_dw">
 <title>Truststore Files for Cluster Pipelines</title>
 <conbody>
     <p><indexterm>cluster pipelines<indexterm>truststore files</indexterm></indexterm>Optionally,
            you can generate and use your own truststore file when <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            runs cluster pipelines. By default, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            uses the truststore file from the following directory on all nodes in the cluster:
                <codeph>$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/cacerts</codeph>.</p>
        <p>When you generate a truststore file to run cluster pipelines, use the following
            files:</p>
     <dl>
         <dlentry>
             <dt>truststore file and truststore password file on the gateway node</dt>
             <dd>The truststore file on the gateway node stores certificates to trust the
                 identity of the worker nodes. The truststore password file contains the password
                 to open the truststore file. Store both files on the gateway node. Uncomment the
                 following properties and enter the path and name of the files:<ul
                     id="ul_h1s_whp_cw">
                     <li><codeph>https.truststore.path</codeph></li>
                     <li><codeph>https.truststore.password</codeph></li>
                 </ul></dd>
             <dd>Enter an absolute path or a path relative to the <codeph>$SDC_CONF</codeph>
                 directory.</dd>
         </dlentry>
         <dlentry>
             <dt>truststore file and truststore password file on all worker nodes</dt>
             <dd>The truststore file on the worker nodes stores certificates to trust the
                 identity of the gateway node. The truststore password file contains the password
                 to open the truststore file. Store the files in the same absolute location on
                 each worker node. Uncomment the following properties and enter the full path to
                 the files:<ul id="ul_ldk_zhp_cw">
                     <li><codeph>https.cluster.truststore.path</codeph></li>
                     <li><codeph>https.cluster.truststore.password</codeph></li>
                 </ul></dd>
         </dlentry>
     </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
