<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ecx_hkq_kr">
 <title>Configuring HTTPS for Standalone Pipelines</title>
 <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>HTTPS<indexterm>configuring for standalone pipelines</indexterm></indexterm>To
      configure HTTPS when you run standalone pipelines only, set the <codeph>https.port</codeph>
      property in the <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      configuration file, <codeph>sdc.properties</codeph>, to a secure port number.</p>
    <p>You can use a self-signed certificate. Or, you can generate an SSL/TLS certificate and
      specify the following files in the <codeph>sdc.properties</codeph> file:</p>
  <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>keystore file</dt>
          <dd>A file that contains the private key and self-signed certificates for the web server.
            You can create your own keystore file or use the provided keystore file. </dd>
          <dd>Store the keystore file on the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            machine. Update the path and name of the keystore file in the
              <codeph>https.keystore.path</codeph> property. Enter an absolute path or a path
            relative to the <systemoutput>$SDC_CONF</systemoutput> directory.</dd>
          <dd>The default keystore file is <filepath>keystore.jks</filepath>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>keystore password file</dt>
          <dd>A file that contains the password to open the Java keystore file. You can create your
            own keystore password file or use the provided file. </dd>
          <dd>Store the keystore password file on the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            machine. Update the path and name of the keystore password file in the
              <codeph>https.keystore.password</codeph> property. Enter an absolute path or a path
            relative to the <systemoutput>$SDC_CONF</systemoutput> directory.</dd>
          <dd>The default keystore password file is <filepath>keystore-password.txt</filepath>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
