<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rdt_h54_cw">
 <title>Configuring HTTPS for Cluster Pipelines</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>HTTPS<indexterm>configuring for cluster
                pipelines</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cluster pipelines<indexterm>configuring
                    HTTPS</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cluster pipelines<indexterm>keystore
                    files</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cluster pipelines<indexterm>truststore
                    files</indexterm></indexterm>To configure HTTPS when you run cluster pipelines,
            set the <codeph>https.port</codeph> property in the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            configuration file, <codeph>sdc.properties</codeph>, to a secure port number.</p>
        <p>You can use a self-signed certificate. Or, you can generate an SSL/TLS certificate for
            the gateway node and the worker nodes. You specify the generated keystore file and
            keystore password file for the gateway and worker nodes in the
                <codeph>sdc.properties</codeph> file. You can optionally generate a truststore file
            for the gateway and worker nodes.</p>
        <section id="section_nqk_qmm_z1b">
            <title>Keystore Files for Cluster Pipelines</title>
            <p>When you generate an SSL/TLS certificate to run cluster pipelines, use the following
                files:</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>keystore file and keystore password file on the gateway node</dt>
                    <dd>The keystore file contains the private key and self-signed certificates for
                        the gateway node to connect to the web server. The keystore password file
                        contains the password to open the Java keystore file. You can create your
                        own files or use the provided files. </dd>
                    <dd>Store both files on the gateway node. Update the path and name of the files
                        in the following properties:<ul id="ul_q1d_4hp_cw">
                            <li><codeph>https.keystore.path</codeph></li>
                            <li><codeph>https.keystore.password</codeph></li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>Enter an absolute path or a path relative to the <codeph>$SDC_CONF</codeph>
                        directory.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>keystore file and keystore password file on all worker nodes</dt>
                    <dd>You must create your own files for all worker nodes to connect to the web
                        server. Store the files in the same absolute location on each worker node.
                        Update the full path to the files in the following properties:<ul
                            id="ul_acl_shp_cw">
                            <li><codeph>https.cluster.keystore.path</codeph></li>
                            <li><codeph>https.cluster.keystore.password</codeph></li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </section>
        <section id="section_pd3_tmm_z1b">
            <title>Truststore Files for Cluster Pipelines</title>
            <p>Optionally, you can generate and use your own truststore file when <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> runs cluster pipelines. By default, <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> uses the truststore file from the following directory on all nodes in the
                cluster: <codeph>$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/cacerts</codeph>.</p>
            <p>When you generate a truststore file to run cluster pipelines, use the following
                files:</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>truststore file and truststore password file on the gateway node</dt>
                    <dd>The truststore file on the gateway node stores certificates to trust the
                        identity of the worker nodes. The truststore password file contains the
                        password to open the truststore file. Store both files on the gateway node.
                        Uncomment the following properties and enter the path and name of the
                            files:<ul id="ul_h1s_whp_cw">
                            <li><codeph>https.truststore.path</codeph></li>
                            <li><codeph>https.truststore.password</codeph></li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>Enter an absolute path or a path relative to the <codeph>$SDC_CONF</codeph>
                        directory.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>truststore file and truststore password file on all worker nodes</dt>
                    <dd>The truststore file on the worker nodes stores certificates to trust the
                        identity of the gateway node. The truststore password file contains the
                        password to open the truststore file. Store the files in the same absolute
                        location on each worker node. Uncomment the following properties and enter
                        the full path to the files:<ul id="ul_ldk_zhp_cw">
                            <li><codeph>https.cluster.truststore.path</codeph></li>
                            <li><codeph>https.cluster.truststore.password</codeph></li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </section>

 </conbody>
</concept>
