<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mdc_shg_qr">
 <title>Java Heap Size</title>
 <shortdesc>Increase or decrease the <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> Java heap
    size as necessary, based on the resources available on the host machine. By default, the Java
    heap size is 1024 MB. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Java configuration options<indexterm>heap
        size</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>heap
        size<indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>The Java heap size determines the heap
      size allocated to <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> and
      affects the amount of memory <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> can use
      when it runs a pipeline. Running a pipeline can use up to 65% of the allocated heap size. </p>
    <p>Use the following Java options to define the Java heap size:<ul id="ul_vyw_rzl_qr">
        <li>Xmx - Defines the maximum heap size.</li>
        <li>Xms - Defines the minimum heap size.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>
      <note type="tip">To avoid constant recalculation of the allocated heap size, set both
        properties to the same value. To define the unit of measure, use m for MB and g for GB. </note>
    </p>
    <p>Define the heap size based on your installation:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Tarball or RPM installation</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Define the heap size in the SDC_JAVA_OPTS environment variable.</p>
          <p>For example, to double the heap size, change the following default settings in the
            environment configuration
            file:<codeblock>export SDC_JAVA_OPTS="<uicontrol>-Xmx1024m -Xms1024m</uicontrol> -server ${SDC_JAVA_OPTS}"</codeblock></p>
          <p>to increase the Xmx and Xms settings as follows:</p>
          <p>
            <codeblock>export SDC_JAVA_OPTS="<uicontrol>-Xmx2048m -Xms2048m</uicontrol> -server ${SDC_JAVA_OPTS}"</codeblock>
          </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Cloudera Manager installation</dt>
        <dd>Define the heap size in the <uicontrol>Data Collector Advanced Configuration Snippet
            (Safety Valve) for sdc-env.sh</uicontrol> field for the StreamSets service in Cloudera
          Manager.</dd>
        <dd>For example, to double the heap size, add the following to the
            <codeph>sdc-env.sh</codeph> safety
          valve:<codeblock>export SDC_JAVA_OPTS="-Xmx2048m -Xms2048m"</codeblock></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>With a heap size of 2048 MB, you can configure a pipeline to use up to 65% - that's 1331 MB
      of memory.<note>In the pipeline properties, you can use the jvm:maxMemoryMB() function to help
        define the percentage of the heap size the pipeline uses.</note></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
