<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kqh_lj3_vx">
 <title>Garbage Collector</title>
 <shortdesc>You can define the Java garbage collector that <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> uses.
        By default, <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> uses
        the Concurrent Mark Sweep (CMS) garbage collector.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p>For example, if you configure <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            use a large heap size, you might want to use the G1 garbage collector. If you define
            another garbage collector, test and evaluate <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            performance before making the same change in a production environment. Garbage collector
            performance depends on each particular use case.</p>
        <p>Define the garbage collector based on your installation:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Tarball or RPM installation</dt>
                <dd>Define the garbage collector in the SDC_JAVA8_OPTS environment variable. </dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>For example, the default garbage collector is defined as follows:</p>
                    <codeblock>export SDC_JAVA8_OPTS=${SDC_JAVA8_OPTS:-"<uicontrol>-XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC -XX:+UseParNewGC</uicontrol>"}</codeblock>
                    <p>To use the G1 garbage collector, set the option as follows: </p>
                    <codeblock>export SDC_JAVA8_OPTS=${SDC_JAVA8_OPTS:-"<uicontrol>-XX:+UseG1GC</uicontrol>"}</codeblock>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Cloudera Manager installation</dt>
                <dd>Define the garbage collector in the <uicontrol>Data Collector Advanced
                        Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for sdc-env.sh</uicontrol> field for
                    the StreamSets service in Cloudera Manager.</dd>
                <dd>For example, to use the G1 garbage collector, add the following to the
                        <codeph>sdc-env.sh</codeph> safety
                    valve:<codeblock> export SDC_JAVA8_OPTS="-XX:+UseG1GC"</codeblock></dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <section id="section_gqv_q21_vy">
            <title>Logging</title>
            <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
                enables garbage collector logging by default to facilitate troubleshooting. Log
                files are written to <codeph>$SDC_LOG/gc.log</codeph>. You can disable logging.</p>
            <p>Disable garbage collector logging based on your installation:</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Tarball or RPM installation</dt>
                    <dd>Set the SDC_GC_LOGGING environment variable to false in the <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> environment configuration file.</dd>
                    <dd>For example:</dd>
                    <dd>
                        <codeblock>export SDC_GC_LOGGING=false</codeblock>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Cloudera Manager installation</dt>
                    <dd>Set the SDC_GC_LOGGING environment variable to false in the <uicontrol>Data
                            Collector Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                            sdc-env.sh</uicontrol> field for the StreamSets service in Cloudera
                        Manager.</dd>
                    <dd>For example, add the following to the <codeph>sdc-env.sh</codeph> safety
                        valve:<codeblock>export SDC_GC_LOGGING=false</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
