<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_i1p_hzd_yy">
 <title>Pipeline Permissions</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>pipeline permissions<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>Pipeline
            permissions determine the access that users have to a pipeline. The owner of the
            pipeline and users with the Admin role have full access to a pipeline. As a pipeline
            owner or a user with the Admin role, you can also assign pipeline permissions to
            individual users and to groups.</p>
        <p>To perform pipeline-related tasks, you must have the appropriate pipeline permissions as
            well as the role associated with the task. For example, a user with the Guest role can
            only view a pipeline when granted read permission for it. Similarly, to edit a pipeline
            with a Creator role, you need both read and write permission on the pipeline. </p>
        <p>To easily enable pipeline access to sets of users, grant permissions to groups. For
            example, say you have five users who require read and execute access to run several
            pipelines. To allow this, you must share each pipeline with each of these users. But if
            the users are in a single Operations group, you can simply assign read and execute
            access to the Operations group instead of assigning the permissions to each user
            individually. </p>
        <p>To use pipeline permissions, enable the pipeline.access.control.enabled <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            configuration property, and configure the permissions on a pipeline-by-pipeline basis. </p>
        <p>
            <note>When enabled, the pipeline owner and users with the Admin role have full access to
                a pipeline, and other users have no access.</note>
        </p>
        <p>By default, the pipeline.access.control.enabled property is disabled. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-PermissionsDisabled"
            /></p>
        <p>You can configure the following pipeline permissions:</p>
        <p>
            <table
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusableTables.dita#concept_wfr_rnw_yq/Permissions_pipe"
                id="table_bpm_ld2_yy">
                <tgroup cols="1">
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry/>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </p>
        <p>For details about sharing pipelines with users and groups, see <xref
                href="../Pipeline_Maintenance/SharingAPipeline.dita#task_elc_qn1_xy"/>. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
