<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_q4y_4mt_p1b">
    <title>Publishing Metadata to Cloudera Navigator</title>
    <shortdesc>If you use Cloudera Manager, you can configure <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
        publish metadata about running pipelines to Cloudera Navigator. You can then use Cloudera
        Navigator to explore the pipeline metadata, including viewing lineage diagrams of the
        metadata. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Cloudera Navigator<indexterm>publishing
                    metadata</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>pipelines<indexterm>publishing
                    metadata</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata<indexterm>publishing to
                    Cloudera Navigator</indexterm></indexterm>Cloudera Navigator integration is
            available with a paid subscription. For details, <xref
                href="https://streamsets.com/contact-us/" format="html" scope="external">contact
                us</xref>.</p>
        <p>At this time, only some pipeline stages support publishing metadata. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            publishes metadata for all supported stages in all running pipelines. If you have
            multiple <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>s
            that run pipelines, configure each <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            publish metadata to the same Cloudera Navigator instance.</p>
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            uses separate threads to publish metadata - so enabling metadata publishing has no
            effect on the running pipeline threads. Every pipeline publishes metadata when the
            pipeline starts and when it stops. Some origins and destinations publish metadata only
            once, typically when they initialize. However, some stages publish metadata each time
            they create a new object - for example, when the Hadoop FS or Local FS destination
            creates a new output file. </p>
        <p>When publishing metadata, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            makes an HTTPS request to Cloudera Navigator, using basic authentication. The data is
            sent in JSON format.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
