<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_k1r_prc_yy">
 <title>Roles and Permissions</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>roles and permissions<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm><ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            allows you to assign roles and pipeline permissions to users and groups.</p>
        <p>Roles, such as Creator or Manager, enable users to perform different <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            tasks. Each user needs at least one role to access <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>. </p>
        <p>Permissions determine read, write, and execute access to individual pipelines. Users
            generally need a combination of roles and permissions to perform pipeline-related tasks.
            For example, to edit a pipeline, you need the Creator role as well as read and write
            permission for the pipeline.</p>
        <p>Use groups to easily assign pipeline permissions to sets of users. When using LDAP
            authentication, you can also assign roles to LDAP groups. When a user belongs to a
            group, the user has the combination of the access assigned to the group and to the user
            individually.</p>
        <p>When necessary, you can transfer permissions from a user or group to another user or
            group. </p>
        <p>Note that users with the Admin role have full access to every pipeline. And the owner of
            a pipeline has full access to the pipeline. These users can also change who owns the
            pipeline.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
