<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_it1_wwg_xz">
 <title>Sending Email</title>
 <conbody>
        <p>You can enable <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            send email by configuring the email configuration properties. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            can send email in the following ways:<ul id="ul_lqj_1xg_xz">
                <li><xref href="../Alerts/EmailforAlerts-Configuring.dita#task_f3v_1hw_1r">Email
                        alert</xref> - Sends a basic email when an email-enabled alert is triggered,
                    such as when the error record threshold has been reached.</li>
                <li><xref href="../Pipeline_Configuration/Notifications.dita#concept_mtn_k4j_rz"
                        >Pipeline notification</xref> - Sends a basic email when the pipeline state
                    changes to a specified state. For example, you might use pipeline notification
                    to send an email when a pipeline transitions to a Run_Error or Finished
                    state.</li>
                <li><xref href="../Executors/Email.dita#concept_sjs_sfp_qz">Email executor</xref> -
                    Sends a custom email upon receiving an event from an event-generating stage. Use
                    in an event stream to send a user-defined email. You can include expressions to
                    provide information about the pipeline or event in the email. <p>For example,
                        you might use an Email executor to send an email upon receiving a
                        failed-query event from the Hive Query executor, and you can include the
                        failed query in the message. </p></li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>To enable sending email, in the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            configuration file, configure the mail.transport.protocol property, and then configure
            the smtp/smtps properties and the xmail properties. For more information, see <xref
                href="ConfiguringDataCollector.dita#task_lxk_kjw_1r"/>.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
