<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_wkr_gdd_1z">
    <title>Transferring Permissions</title>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p><indexterm>permissions<indexterm>transferring</indexterm></indexterm>You can transfer
                all permissions from a user or group to another user or group. </p>
            <p>To change the permissions related to individual pipelines, configure the sharing
                properties for each pipeline. For more information, see <xref
                    href="../Pipeline_Maintenance/SharingPipelines.dita#concept_jrg_1vy_wy"/>.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>To transfer permissions, click the <uicontrol>Administration</uicontrol> icon
                    and then click <uicontrol>Transfer Permissions</uicontrol>.</cmd>
                <info>The <wintitle>Transfer User &amp; Group Permissions</wintitle>  dialog box
                    displays.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If users or groups are listed, review the list and correct the suggested
                    mappings as needed.</cmd>
                <info>On the left side of the dialog box, <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> lists any users or groups that no longer exist but still have pipeline
                    permissions. This allows you to easily transfer permissions from those users and
                    groups. </info>
                <info>The right side of the dialog box displays the list of available users and
                    groups. Select the user or group to receive the permissions for each
                    mapping.</info>
                <info>Or, if you do not want to transfer permissions from a listed user or group,
                    use the <uicontrol>Subtract</uicontrol> icon to remove the row.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Using <xref
                        href="../Pipeline_Configuration/SimpleBulkEdit.dita#concept_alb_b3y_cbb"
                        >simple or bulk edit mode</xref>, click the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> icon
                    to add a row.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On the left side, enter the name of the user or group that you want to transfer
                    permissions from.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On the right side, select the user or group to receive those permissions.</cmd>
                <info>Pipeline ownership can only be transferred to another user. If you transfer
                    permissions from a user to a group and the user is also a pipeline owner, the
                    user retains ownership. A user with the Admin role can transfer the pipeline
                    ownership to another user, as needed.<note>You can transfer permissions from a
                        user or group to a single user or group. If you map the same user or group
                        to multiple targets, <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> transfers permission to the last user or group in the list.</note></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Add as many rows and mappings as needed, then to save your changes, click
                        <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol>.</cmd>
                <info>The permission changes take effect immediately. </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
