<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_p11_msc_1z">
 <title>Transfer Pipeline Permissions</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>permissions<indexterm>transferring overview</indexterm></indexterm>You can
            transfer pipeline permissions from a user or group to another user or group. When you
            transfer permissions, all pipeline permissions are passed to the target user or group.
            Pipeline ownership transfers only from a user to another user. </p>
        <p>Transfer permissions when a user account or group becomes obsolete, such as when a user
            leaves the company or when you register <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            with <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/DPM-LongOnly"/>.
            You might also transfer permissions when a user changes positions within the company. </p>
        <p>For example, say a JD user account belongs to a pipeline developer who has created
            several pipelines and is now transitioning to operations. As the pipeline creator, JD
            has full rights to the pipelines that she created. The pipelines are about to go into
            production, so she needs read and execute permission to run the pipelines, but she
            should no longer be able to edit them. </p>
        <p>To handle this situation, you can transfer all permissions associated with the JD account
            to another development user or a development group. Then assign JD to an Ops group with
            the Manager role and assign the Ops group the read and execute permissions for the
            pipelines they need to run. Or, without an Ops group, you simply assign the Manager role
            to the JD user account and edit the pipeline permissions to grant read and execute
            permissions to JD.</p>
        <p>When you transfer permissions, the Transfer User and Group Permissions dialog box lists
            any users or groups that no longer exist but are still associated with pipeline
            permissions. This allows you to easily transfer permissions from obsolete users and
            groups.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
