<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bmq_gl1_mw">
 <title>Accessing Vault Secrets with Vault Functions (Deprecated)</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> can
            use Vault functions to access information, a.k.a. <term>secrets</term>, stored in
            Hashicorp Vault. However, the Vault functions are now deprecated and will be removed in
            a future release. We recommend using the credential functions available with the Vault
                <xref href="CredentialStores.dita#concept_bt1_bpj_r1b">credential store</xref>
            integration.</p>
        <p>You can use Vault secrets in place of username and password properties, similar
            properties such as AWS access key IDs and secret access keys, and in HTTP headers and
            bodies when using HTTPS. </p>
        <p>To access Vault secrets using the Vault functions, configure properties for <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            access Vault. Then, use Vault functions in the pipeline to access Vault at run time.</p>
        <p>To access information stored in Vault, perform the following steps:<ol id="ol_ahx_z41_mw">
                <li>Configure the Vault connection properties.</li>
                <li>In the pipeline, use Vault functions to access Vault secrets.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p>
            <note>This documentation includes details about Hashicorp Vault to simplify the
                installation and configuration process. For more information, see the Vault
                documentation. </note>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
