<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bnl_n3n_s5">
 <title>Step 2. Install Additional Libraries</title>
 <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>basic install<indexterm>installing additional
                libraries</indexterm></indexterm>Use the <codeph>stagelibs</codeph> command to
            install additional libraries to use stages that are not included in the basic
            installation. This is an optional step, but generally you'll want to install additional
            libraries to process data.</p>
        <note>The <codeph>stagelibs</codeph> command requires that curl version 7.18.1 or later and
            sha1sum utilities are installed on the machine. Verify that these utilities are
            installed before running the command.</note>
        <p>Use the following commands to install additional libraries:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>To view the list of available libraries:</dt>
                    <dd>Use the following
                        command:<codeblock>$SDC_DIST/bin/streamsets stagelibs -list</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>This provides a list of all available stage libraries and whether they are
                        already installed. For more information about the stages installed with each
                        stage library, see <xref href="BasicInstall-LibList.dita"/>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>To install one or more stage libraries:</dt>
                    <dd>Use the following
                        command:<codeblock>$SDC_DIST/bin/streamsets stagelibs -install=&lt;libraryID>,&lt;libraryID>,...</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>Use the full name of the libraries that you want to install, separating them
                        with commas. Do not include spaces in the command. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, to install the Amazon S3 origin and destination, as well as the
                        Cassandra destination and Elasticsearch destination for Elasticsearch 1.6.2,
                        use the following command:
                        <codeblock>$SDC_DIST/bin/streamsets stagelibs -install\
=streamsets-datacollector-aws-lib,streamsets-datacollector-cassandra_2-lib,\
streamsets-datacollector-elasticsearch_1_6-lib </codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>When successful, the command line indicates that the stage libraries have
                        been installed as follows:
                        <codeblock>Downloading: https://archives.streamsets.com/datacollector/&lt;version>/tarball\
/streamsets-datacollector-aws-lib-&lt;version>-SNAPSHOT.tgz
######################################################################## 100.0%
Downloading: https://archives.streamsets.com/datacollector/&lt;version>/tarball\
streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib-&lt;version>-SNAPSHOT.tgz
######################################################################## 100.0%
Downloading: https://archives.streamsets.com/datacollector/&lt;version>/tarball\
streamsets-datacollector-rabbitmq-lib-&lt;version>-SNAPSHOT.tgz
######################################################################## 100.0%

Stage library streamsets-datacollector-aws-lib installed
Stage library streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib installed
Stage library streamsets-datacollector-rabbitmq-lib installed</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>To generate the command required to perform the current installation
                        (optional):</dt>
                    <dd>You can use the <codeph>stagelibs</codeph> command to generate the command
                        to install the libraries that are installed on the current <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        />. This allows you to easily replicate the installation elsewhere. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, say you installed three libraries above, and then installed
                        another two. You can generate the command required to install all five
                        libraries on additional machines.</dd>
                    <dd>To generate an installation script based on the current <ph
                            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                        /> installation, use the following
                        command:<codeblock>$SDC_DIST/bin/streamsets stagelibs -installScript</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>The command returns an install command, such as the following:
                        <codeblock>=================================================================================
streamsets stagelibs -install=streamsets-datacollector-apache-kafka_0_8_1-lib,\
streamsets-datacollector-aws-lib,streamsets-datacollector-basic-lib,\
streamsets-datacollector-cdh_kafka_1_3-lib,streamsets-datacollector-jdbc-lib,\
streamsets-datacollector-jython_2_7-lib,streamsets-datacollector-rabbitmq-lib
=================================================================================</codeblock></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>To uninstall libraries when necessary:</dt>
                    <dd>To uninstall a library, use the following
                        command:<codeblock>$SDC_DIST/bin/streamsets -uninstall=&lt;libraryID>,&lt;libraryID>,...</codeblock></dd>
                    <dd>Use the full name of the libraries that you want to install, separating them
                        with commas. Do not include spaces in the command. </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
