<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_nsz_lp4_1r">
    <title>Configuring Users</title>
    <shortdesc>The <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
        includes several default users - one for each role. For increased security, you can
        customize the default users, delete them, or create additional Data Collector
        users.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p><indexterm>users<indexterm>creating</indexterm></indexterm>Configure users in the
                properties file for the type of authentication that you use. For example, if you use
                basic authentication, use the basic-realm.properties file.</p>
            <p>To hash login information, you can use an md5 program such as md5 on Mac OS X or
                md5sum on Linux. </p>
            <p>For basic and form authentication, hash the password alone. For example:
                <codeblock>$ echo -n "&lt;password>" | md5</codeblock></p>
            <p>For digest authentication, hash the combination of &lt;user
                name>:&lt;realm>:&lt;password>, where &lt;realm> is the authentication type. </p>
            <p>For example, you might use the following
                command:<codeblock>$ echo -n "&lt;user name>:&lt;realm>:&lt;password>" | md5</codeblock></p>
            <p>as follows:</p>
            <p>
                <codeblock>$ echo -n "jdoe:digest-realm:JdoePass" | md5</codeblock>
            </p>
        </context>
        <steps id="steps_ody_3q4_1r">
            <step>
                <cmd>To configure a user, modify the properties file for the type of authentication
                    that you use. </cmd>
                <info>The file name is <filepath>&lt;realm>.properties</filepath>. </info>
                <info>The file is located in the following directory:
                        <filepath>&lt;SDCinstalldir>/etc/</filepath>. When the <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> is installed as a service, the file is located in the following directory:
                        <filepath>/etc/sdc/</filepath>. </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>For each new user, add a user definition using the following format:</cmd>
                <info>
                    <codeblock>&lt;user name>: MD5:&lt;md5-text>, user, &lt;role> [, &lt;additional role>, &lt;additional role>...]</codeblock>
                </info>
                <info>
                    <note>Assign one or more roles for each user. Be sure to include "user" in every
                        user definition.</note>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To make the new users available, restart the <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    />.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
