<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ecx_hkq_kr">
 <title>HTTP Protocols</title>
 <shortdesc>You can configure <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to use HTTP
    or HTTPS. By default <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> uses
    HTTP.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>HTTP protocol<indexterm>configuring for the Data Collector
        </indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Data Collector<indexterm>configuring the HTTP
          protocol</indexterm></indexterm>HTTPS requires an SSL certificate. <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> provides a
      self-signed certificate so you can use HTTPS immediately. You can also generate a certificate
      that is self-signed or signed by a certifying authority. Web browsers generally issue a
      warning for self-signed certificates. </p>
    <p>When you configure <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to use
      HTTPS, you can have <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> redirect
      HTTP requests to HTTPS or to ignore them.</p>
  <p>When you generate a SSL certificate, use the following files: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>keystore file</dt>
          <dd>A file that contains the private key and self-signed certificates for the web server.
            You can create your own keystore file or use the provided keystore file. </dd>
          <dd>Store the keystore file in the following
            location:<codeblock>&lt;SDCinstalldir>/etc</codeblock></dd>
          <dd>The default keystore file is <filepath>keystore.jks</filepath>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>keystore password file</dt>
          <dd>A file that contains the password to open the Java keystore file. You can create your
            own keystore password file or use the provided file. </dd>
          <dd>Store the keystore password file in the following
            location:<codeblock>&lt;SDCinstalldir>/etc</codeblock></dd>
          <dd>The default keystore file is <filepath>keystore-password.txt</filepath>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
