<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_zhl_k4f_cr">
 <title>Installing Additional Stages</title>
 <shortdesc>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
    /> includes a wide range of stages for pipeline development, but you might find a need for
    additional functionality. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>stages<indexterm>installing
          additional</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>installation<indexterm>additional
          stages</indexterm></indexterm>At this time, you can install the following additional
      functionality: <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_izz_npf_cr">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.85*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Additional Functionality</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Cassandra 2.1.5</entry>
              <entry>Use to write to Cassandra version 2.1.5. <p>Provides a Cassandra
                  destination.</p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>CDH Kafka 1.2.0 (0.8.2.0)</entry>
              <entry>Use access the Cloudera version 1.2.0 distribution of Apache Kafka 0.8.2.0.
                  <p>Provides a Kafka Consumer origin and Kafka Producer destination.</p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>CDH 5.4.1 Cluster Kafka 1.2.0 </entry>
              <entry>Use to read from the Cloudera version 5.4.1 distribution of the Apache Kafka
                version 1.2.0. <p>Provides a Kafka Consumer origin. </p><p><ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                  /> cluster mode only. </p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>CDH 5.3.2<p>CDH 5.4.1</p></entry>
              <entry>Use to write to the Cloudera CDH versions 5.3.2 and 5.4.1 distribution of
                Apache Hadoop. <p>Provides the following destinations:</p><ul id="ul_exh_55f_cs">
                  <li>Flume</li>
                  <li>Hadoop FS</li>
                  <li>HBase</li>
                  <li>Solr</li>
                </ul></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Elasticsearch 1.5.0</entry>
              <entry>Use to write to Elasticsearch version 1.5.0. <p>Provides an Elasticsearch
                  destination. </p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>HDP 2.2.0</entry>
              <entry>Use to write to the Hortonworks version 2.2.0 distribution of Apache Hadoop.
                  <p>Provides the following destinations:<ul id="ul_ffk_y3g_cs">
                    <li>Flume</li>
                    <li>Hadoop FS</li>
                    <li>HBase</li>
                  </ul></p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Jython 2.7.0</entry>
              <entry>Use to process scripts written in Jython version 2.7.0.<p>Provides a Jython
                  Evaluator processor. </p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Kinesis 1.2.1</entry>
              <entry>Use to access Amazon Kinesis version 1.2.1.<p>Provides a Kinesis origin and
                  destination.</p></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></p>
    <draft-comment author="Loretta">Is this table missing anything? I assembled by looking at
      libraries and stage versions. I got a few additional stage versions from Brock that I didn't
      see in either place?</draft-comment>
 </conbody>
</concept>
