<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mdc_shg_qr">
 <title>Java Heap Size</title>
 <shortdesc>You can define the <ph
      conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> Java heap
    size. By default, the  Java heap size is 1024 MB. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>Java configuration options<indexterm>heap
        size</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>heap
        size<indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>The Java heap size determines the heap
      size allocated to <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> and
      affects the amount of memory <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> can use
      when it runs a pipeline. Running a pipeline can use up to 65% of the allocated heap size. </p>
   <p>Define the heap size as part of the SDC_JAVA_OPTS environment variable in the <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      environment configuration file. Increase or decrease the heap size as necessary, based on the
      resources available on the host machine.</p>
    <p>Use the following Java options to define the Java heap size:<ul id="ul_vyw_rzl_qr">
        <li>Xmx - Defines the maximum heap size.</li>
        <li>Xms - Defines the minimum heap size.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>
      <note type="tip">To avoid constant recalculation of the allocated heap size, set the both
        properties to the same value. To define the unit of measure, use m for MB and g for GB. </note>
    </p>
    <p>For example, to double the heap size, you might change the following default
      settings:<codeblock>SDC_JAVA_OPTS="-Dhttps.protocols=TLSv1.2,TLSv1.1 <uicontrol>-Xmx1024m -Xms1024m</uicontrol> -XX:PermSize=256m -XX:MaxPermSize=512m -server ${SDC_JAVA_OPTS}"</codeblock></p>
    <p>to increase the Xmx and Xms settings as follows:</p>
    <p>
      <codeblock>SDC_JAVA_OPTS="-Dhttps.protocols=TLSv1.2,TLSv1.1 <uicontrol>-Xmx2048m -Xms2048m</uicontrol> -XX:PermSize=256m -XX:MaxPermSize=512m -server ${SDC_JAVA_OPTS}"</codeblock>
    </p>
    <p>With a heap size of 2048 MB, you can configure a pipeline to use up to 65% - that's 1331 MB
      of memory.<note>In the pipeline properties, you can use the jvm:maxMemoryMB() function to help
        define the percentage of the heap size the pipeline uses.</note></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
