<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dt2_cpb_kr">
 <title>Users and Roles</title>
 <shortdesc>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
    /> provides several roles and a default user account based on each role. You can change or
    remove these accounts. You can also create new user accounts. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>users<indexterm>default users and
          roles</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>roles<indexterm>for
      users</indexterm></indexterm>For increased security, change the passwords for the default
      accounts. A production deployment of the <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> should
      integrate with LDAP authentication. </p>
    <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> roles
      define the tasks that a user can perform. When you configure a user, assign it one or more
      roles. Users can perform any task that their roles allow.</p>
  <p>The <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
      provides the following roles: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>admin</dt>
          <dd>Allows you to perform any task within the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>. </dd>
          <dd>The default login for the admin user account is <codeph>admin</codeph> /
              <codeph>admin</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>manager</dt>
          <dd>Allows you to manage pipelines. As a manager, you can start and stop pipelines,
            monitor pipelines, configure and reset alerts, and review snapshots. You cannot
            configure pipelines or preview data.</dd>
          <dd>The default login for the manager user account is <codeph>manager</codeph> /
              <codeph>manager</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>creator</dt>
          <dd>Allows you to configure pipelines. As a creator, you can configure pipelines and
            alerts, preview data, and monitor the pipeline. You cannot review snapshots or reset
            alerts.</dd>
          <dd>The default login for the creator user account is <codeph>creator</codeph> /
              <codeph>creator</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>guest</dt>
          <dd>Allows read-only access to the <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>. As
            a guest, you can view pipeline and alert configuration, view general monitoring and log
            information. You cannot preview data or review snapshots, or configure pipelines or
            alerts.</dd>
          <dd>The default login for the guest user account is <codeph>guest</codeph> /
              <codeph>guest</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
