<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_s4p_ns5_nz">
 <title>Understanding Pipeline States</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>pipeline state<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>A pipeline state is the
            current condition of the pipeline, such as "running" or "stopped". The pipeline state
            can display in the All Pipelines list. The state of a pipeline can also appear in the
                <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            /> log.</p>
        <p>The following pipeline states often display in the All Pipelines list:<ul
                id="ul_nm3_xwq_mz">
                <li>EDITED - The pipeline has been created or modified, and has not run since the
                    last modification.</li>
                <li>FINISHED - The pipeline has completed all expected processing and has stopped
                    running.</li>
                <li>RUN_ERROR - The pipeline encountered an error while running and stopped.</li>
                <li>RUNNING - The pipeline is running.</li>
                <li>STOPPED - The pipeline was manually stopped. </li>
                <li>START_ERROR - The pipeline encountered an error while starting and failed to
                    start. </li>
                <li>STOP_ERROR - The pipeline encountered an error while stopping.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>The following pipeline states are transient and rarely display in the All Pipelines list.
            These states can display in the <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            log when the pipeline logging level is set to Debug:<ul id="ul_mml_fxq_mz">
                <li>CONNECT_ERROR - When running a cluster-mode pipeline, Data Collector cannot
                    connect to the underlying cluster manager, such as Mesos or YARN.</li>
                <li>CONNECTING - The pipeline is preparing to restart after a <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> restart. </li>
                <li>DISCONNECTED - The pipeline is disconnected from external systems, typically
                    because <ph
                        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                    /> is restarting or shutting down.</li>
                <li>FINISHING - The pipeline is in the process of finishing all expected
                    processing.</li>
                <li>RETRY - The pipeline is trying to run after encountering an error while running.
                    This occurs only when the pipeline is configured for a retry upon error. </li>
                <li>RUNNING_ERROR - The pipeline encounters errors while running.</li>
                <li>STARTING - The pipeline is initializing, but hasn't started yet. </li>
                <li>STARTING_ERROR - The pipeline encounters errors while starting.</li>
                <li>STOPPING - The pipeline is in the process of stopping after a manual request to
                    stop.</li>
                <li>STOPPING_ERROR - The pipeline encounters errors while stopping.</li>
            </ul></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
