<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_hdg_j1s_5q">
    <title>Resetting the Origin</title>
    <shortdesc>You can reset the origin when you want the <ph
            conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
        process all available data instead of processing data from the last-saved offset. Reset the
        origin when the pipeline is not running. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <indexterm>pipelines<indexterm>resetting the
                    origin</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>resetting the
                    origin</indexterm></indexterm>You can reset the origin for the following origin
                stages:<ul id="ul_k1q_35k_2s">
                <li>Amazon S3</li>
                <li>Directory</li>
                <li>Elasticsearch</li>
                <li>File Tail</li>
                <li>Google Cloud Storage</li>
                <li>JDBC Multitable Consumer</li>
                <li>JDBC Query Consumer</li>
                <li>Kinesis Consumer - For unique details about resetting this origin, see <xref
                        href="../Origins/KinConsumer-ResetOrigin.dita#concept_dt1_4mq_h1b"/>.</li>
                <li>MapR DB JSON</li>
                <li>MongoDB</li>
                <li>MongoDB Oplog</li>
                <li>MySQL Binary Log</li>
                <li>Salesforce</li>
                <li>SFTP/FTP Client</li>
                <li>SQL Server CDC Client</li>
                <li>SQL Server Change Tracking</li>
                <li>Windows Event Log</li>
            </ul><p>For these origins, when you stop the pipeline, the <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> notes where it stopped processing data. When you restart the pipeline, it
                continues from where it left off by default. When you want the <ph
                    conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                /> to process all available data instead of continuing from where it stopped, reset
                the origin.</p><p>You can configure the Kafka and MapR Streams origins to process
                all available data by specifying  an additional Kafka configuration property. For
                more information, see "Processing All Unread Data" in the stage documentation. The
                remaining origin stages process transient data where resetting the origin has no
                effect.</p><p>You can reset the origin for multiple pipelines at the same time from
                the <uicontrol>Home</uicontrol> page. Or, you can reset the origin for a single
                pipeline from the pipeline canvas.</p><p>To reset the origin:</p></context>
        <steps id="steps_hvb_y1s_5q">
            <step>
                <cmd>Select multiple pipelines from the <uicontrol>Home</uicontrol> page, or view a
                    single pipeline in the pipeline canvas.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>More</uicontrol> icon, and then click <uicontrol>Reset
                        Origin</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>In the <wintitle>Reset Origin Confirmation</wintitle> dialog box, click
                        <uicontrol>Yes</uicontrol> to reset the origin.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
