<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wnv_25j_ks">
 <title>Regular Expressions in the Pipeline</title>
 <shortdesc>Though generally not required, you can use Java-based regular expressions at various
  locations within a pipeline to define, search for, or manipulate strings. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>regular expressions<indexterm>in the pipeline</indexterm></indexterm>For example, in
   the Field Masker processor, you can use a fixed length, variable length, or custom static mask to
   mask data in a field. When that doesn't work for you, you can use a regular expression to define
   a specific custom mask. Similarly, you can use a regular expression to define the format of a log
   line if it does not use one of the listed formats. </p>
  <p>The following table describes some examples of how you might use regular expressions in the
    pipeline:<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_dtb_35j_ks">
    <tgroup cols="2">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.08*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Location</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>Directory origin</entry>
       <entry>Optionally use to define the pattern of the file name.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>File Tail origin</entry>
       <entry>Use to define the ${PATTERN} constant when you use the Files Matching a Pattern naming
        option. <p>Use to define the structure of a log line or text.</p></entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Origins that process log data<p>Log Parser processor</p></entry>
       <entry>Optionally use to define the pattern of the log line.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Field Masker processor</entry>
       <entry>Optionally use to define the field mask.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>regexCapture function</entry>
       <entry>Use to define the groups and pattern of the string so you can specify the group to
        return.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>replaceAll function</entry>
       <entry>Use to define the string to replace.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
