<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_y5y_5xd_5y">
 <title>Use Cases</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>CDC processing<indexterm>use cases</indexterm></indexterm>You can use CDC-enabled
            origins and CRUD-enabled destinations in pipelines together or individually. Here are
            some typical use cases:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>CDC-enabled origin with CRUD-enabled destinations</dt>
                    <dd>You can use a CDC-enabled origin and a CRUD-enabled destination to easily
                        process changed records and write them to a destination system. </dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p>For example, say you want to write CDC data from Microsoft SQL Server to
                            Kudu. To do this, you use the CDC-enabled JDBC Query Consumer origin to
                            read data from a Microsoft SQL Server change capture table. The origin
                            places the CRUD operation type in the sdc.operation.type header
                            attribute, in this case: 1 for INSERT, 2 for DELETE, 3 for UPDATE. </p>
                        <p>You configure the pipeline to write to the CRUD-enabled Kudu destination.
                            In the Kudu destination, you can specify a default operation for any
                            record with no value set in the sdc.operation.type attribute, and you
                            can configure error handling for invalid values. You set the default to
                            INSERT and you configure the destination to use this default for invalid
                            values. In the sdc.operation.type attribute, the Kudu destination
                            supports 1 for INSERT, 2 for DELETE, 3 for UPDATE, and 4 for UPSERT.</p>
                        <p>When you run the pipeline, the JDBC Query Consumer origin determines the
                            CRUD operation type for each record and writes it to the
                            sdc.operation.type record header attribute. And the Kudu destination
                            uses the operation in the sdc.operation.type attribute to inform the
                            Kudu destination system how to process each record. Any record with an
                            undeclared value in the sdc.operation.type attribute, such as a record
                            created by the pipeline, is treated like an INSERT record. And any
                            record with an invalid value uses the same default behavior.</p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>CDC-enabled origin to non-CRUD destinations</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <p>If you need to write changed data to a destination system without a
                            CRUD-enabled destination, you can use an Expression Evaluator or
                            scripting processor to move the CRUD operation information from the
                            sdc.operation.type header attribute to a field, so the information is
                            retained in the record.</p>
                        <p>For example, say you want to read from Oracle LogMiner redo logs and
                            write the records to Hive tables with all of the CDC information in
                            record fields. To do this, you'd use the Oracle CDC Client origin to
                            read the redo logs, then add an Expression Evaluator to pull the CRUD
                            information from the sdc.operation.type header attribute into the
                            record. Oracle CDC Client writes additional CDC information such as the
                            table name and scn into oracle.cdc header attributes, so you can use
                            expressions to pull that information into the record as well. Then you
                            can use the Hadoop FS destination to write the enhanced records to
                            Hive.</p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Non-CDC origin to CRUD destinations</dt>
                    <dd>When reading data from a non-CDC origin, you can use the Expression
                        Evaluator or scripting processors to define the sdc.operation.type header
                        attribute. </dd>
                    <dd>For example, say you want to read from a transactional database table and
                        keep a dimension table in sync with the changes. You'd use the JDBC Query
                        Consumer to read the source table and a JDBC Lookup processor to check the
                        dimension table for the primary key value of each record. Then, based on the
                        output of the lookup processor, you know if there was a matching record in
                        the table or not. Using an Expression Evaluator, you set the
                        sdc.operation.type record header attribute - 3 to update the records that
                        had a matching record, and 1 to insert new records. </dd>
                    <dd>When you pass the records to the JDBC Producer destination, the destination
                        uses the operation in the sdc.operation.type header attribute to determine
                        how to write the records to the dimension table.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
