<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wj5_hy2_5y">
 <title>Processing the Record</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>CDC processing<indexterm>processing the record</indexterm></indexterm>Change logs
            can provide record data in different formats. The JDBC Tee processor and JDBC Producer
            can decode most change log formats to generate record data based on the origin change
            log. When using other CRUD-enabled destinations, you might need to add additional
            processing to the pipeline to alter the format of the record. </p>
        <p>For example, Microsoft SQL CDC records created by the JDBC Query Consumer contains CDC
            fields in the record, in addition to record data. You might use a Field Remover to drop
            any unnecessary fields from the record. </p>
        <p>In contrast, the MySQL Server binary logs read by the My SQL Binary Log origin provides
            new or updated data in a New Data map field and changed or deleted data in a Changed
            Data map field. You might want to use the Field Flattener processor to flatten the map
            field with the data that you need, and a Field Remover to remove any unnecessary fields. </p>
        <p>For details on the format of generated records, see the documentation for the CDC-enabled
            origin.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
