<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ffz_hhw_kq">
 <title>Delivery Guarantee</title>
 <shortdesc>When you configure a pipeline, you define how you want data to be treated: Do you want
    to prevent the loss of data or the duplication of data?</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>delivery guarantee<indexterm>pipeline
        property</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>pipeline properties<indexterm>delivery
          guarantee</indexterm></indexterm>The Delivery Guarantee pipeline property offers the
      following choices: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>At least once</dt>
          <dd>Ensures that the pipeline processes all data. </dd>
          <dd>If a failure causes <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            stop while processing a batch of data, when it restarts, it reprocesses the batch. This
            option ensures that no data is lost. </dd>
          <dd>With this option, <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            commits the offset after receiving write confirmation from destination systems. If a
            failure occurs after <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            passes data to destination systems but before receiving confirmation and committing the
            offset, up to one batch data might be duplicated in destination systems.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>At most once</dt>
          <dd>Ensures that data is not processed more than once. </dd>
          <dd>If a failure causes <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            stop while processing a batch of data, when it starts up, it begins processing with the
            next batch of data. This option avoids the duplication of data in destinations due to
            reprocessing. </dd>
          <dd>With this option, <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            commits the offset after a write without waiting for confirmation from destination
            systems. If a failure occurs after <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            passes data to destinations and commits the offset, up to one batch of data might not
            get written to the destination systems.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
