<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_czx_ktn_ht">
  <title>Development Stages</title>
  <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>pipeline design<indexterm>development
          stages</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>development
        origins</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processors<indexterm>development
          processors</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Dev Data Generator
          origin<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Dev Random Source
          origin<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Dev Raw Data Source
          origin<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Dev Random Error
          processor<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Dev Record Creator
          processor<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>You can use several development
      stages to help develop and test pipelines. <note>Do not use development stages in production
        pipelines. </note></p>
    <p>You can use the following stages when developing or testing pipelines:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dev Data Generator origin</dt>
          <dd>Generates records with the configured number of fields with the selected data types.
            You can use a Map or List-Map root field type. </dd>
          <dd>The origin can generate events to test event handling functionality. To generate event
            records, select the <uicontrol>Produce Events</uicontrol> property. </dd>
          <dd>When generating events, the origin uses the configured fields as the body of the event
            record and adds event record header attributes. You can also specify the event type with
            the <uicontrol>Event Name</uicontrol> property. For example, to create a no-more-data
            event, enter "no-more-data" for the event name. For more information about the event
            framework and event record header attributes, see <xref
              href="../Event_Handling/EventFramework-Overview.dita#concept_cph_5h4_lx"/>.</dd>
          <dd>The origin can also generate multiple threads for testing for a multithreaded
            pipeline. To generate multiple threads, enter a number larger than 1 for the
              <uicontrol>Number of Threads</uicontrol> property. For more information about
            multithreaded pipelines, see <xref
              href="../Multithreaded_Pipelines/MultithreadedPipelines_Overview.dita#concept_zpp_2xc_py"
            />.</dd>
          <dd>The On Record Error property has no effect in this stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dev Random Source origin</dt>
          <dd>Generates records with the configured number of Long fields. You can define a delay
            between batches and a maximum number of records to generate.</dd>
          <dd>The On Record Error property has no effect in this stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dev Raw Data Source origin</dt>
          <dd>Generates records based on user-supplied data. You can enter raw data, select the data
            format of the data, and then configure any format-related configuration options. </dd>
          <dd>For example, you can enter a set of log data, select the log data format, and then
            define the log format and other log properties for the data. </dd>
          <dd>In data preview, this stage displays the raw source data as well as the data generated
            by the stage. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dev SDC RPC with Buffering origin</dt>
          <dd>Receives records from an SDC RPC destination, temporarily buffering the records to
            disk before passing the records to the next stage in the pipeline. Use as the origin in
            an SDC RPC destination pipeline.<note> After a deliberate or unexpected stop of the
              pipeline, buffered records are lost.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dev Identity processor</dt>
          <dd>Passes all records through to the next stage. Use as a placeholder in the pipeline.
            You can define required fields and preconditions, and configure stage error handling.
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dev Random Error processor</dt>
          <dd>Generates error records so you can test pipeline error handling. You can configure the
            stage to discard records, define required fields and preconditions, and configure stage
            error handling. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dev Record Creator processor</dt>
          <dd>Generates two records for each record that enters the stage. You can define required
            fields and preconditions, and configure stage error handling. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>To Event destination</dt>
          <dd>Generates events for testing event handling functionality. To generate events, select
            the <uicontrol>Produce Events</uicontrol> property. </dd>
          <dd>The destination generates an event record for each incoming record. It uses the
            incoming record as the body of an event record and adds event record header attributes.
            Note that any record header attributes in the incoming record might be lost or
            replaced.</dd>
          <dd>For more information about the event framework and event record header attributes, see
              <xref href="../Event_Handling/EventFramework-Overview.dita#concept_cph_5h4_lx"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
