<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kgc_l4y_5r">
  <title>Pipeline Error Record Handling</title>
  <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>pipelines<indexterm>error record handling</indexterm></indexterm>Pipeline error
      record handling determines how <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> processes
      error records that stages send to the pipeline for error handling. It also handles records
      deliberately dropped from the pipeline such as records without required fields.</p>
    <p>The pipeline handles error records based on the Error Records property on the Error Records
      tab. When <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
      /> encounters an unexpected error, it stops the pipeline and logs the error.</p>
    <p> The pipeline provides the following error record handling options:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Discard</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline discards the record. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to Another Pipeline</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records to an SDC RPC pipeline. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>When you write to another pipeline, <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            effectively creates an SDC RPC origin pipeline to pass the error records to another
            pipeline. </dd>
          <dd>You need to create an SDC RPC destination pipeline to process the error records. The
            pipeline must include an SDC RPC origin configured to read error records from this
            pipeline. </dd>
          <dd>For more information about SDC RPC pipelines, see <xref
              href="../RPC_Pipelines/SDC_RPCpipeline.dita#concept_lnh_z3z_bt"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to Elasticsearch</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to Elasticsearch. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the configuration properties for the Elasticsearch cluster to use. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to File</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to a local directory. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the directory to use and the maximum file size. Error files are named based
            on the File Prefix pipeline property. </dd>
          <dd>Write to file is not supported for cluster pipelines at this time.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to Google Cloud Storage</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to Google Cloud Storage. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the Google Cloud Storage configuration properties. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to Google Sub/Pub</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to Google Sub/Pub. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the Google Sub/Pub configuration properties. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to Kafka</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to Kafka. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the configuration properties for the Kafka cluster to use. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to Kinesis</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to Amazon Kinesis Streams. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the configuration properties for the Kinesis stream to use. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to MapR Streams</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to MapR Streams. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the configuration properties for the MapR Streams cluster to use. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Write to MQTT</dt>
          <dd>The pipeline writes error records and related details to an MQTT broker. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            includes the records in error record counts and metrics.</dd>
          <dd>You define the configuration properties for the MQTT broker to use. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
