<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_atr_j4y_5r">
 <title>Stage Error Record Handling</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>stages<indexterm>error record handling</indexterm></indexterm>Most stages include
      error record handling options. When an error occurs when processing a record, <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> processes
      records based on the On Record Error property on the General tab of the stage. </p>
    <p>Stages include the following error handling options:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Discard</dt>
          <dd>The stage silently discards the record. <ph
              conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> does
            not log information about the error or note the specific record that encountered an
            error. The discarded record is not included in <ph product="SDC">Monitor mode </ph>error
            record counts or metrics. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Send to Error </dt>
          <dd>The stage sends the record to the pipeline for error handling. The pipeline processes
            the record based on the pipeline error handling configuration.</dd>
          <dd product="SDC">When you monitor the pipeline, you can view the most recent error
            records and the issues they encountered on the Error Records tab for the stage. This
            information becomes unavailable after you stop the pipeline. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Stop Pipeline</dt>
          <dd><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            stops the pipeline and logs information about the error. The error that stopped the
            pipeline displays <ph product="SDC">as an alert in Monitor mode and </ph>as an error in
            the pipeline history. </dd>
          <dd>Stop pipeline is not supported for cluster mode pipelines at this time.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
