<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pm4_txm_vq">
  <title>Error Record Handling</title>
  <conbody>
    <p><indexterm>error records<indexterm>handling</indexterm></indexterm>You can configure error
      record handling at a stage level and at a pipeline level. You can also specify the version of
      the record to use as the basis for the error record.</p>
    <p>When an error occurs as a stage processes a record, <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> handles
      the record based on the stage configuration. One of the stage options is to pass the record to
      the pipeline for error handling. For this option, <ph
        conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> processes
      the record based on the pipeline error record handling configuration. </p>
    <p>When you configure a pipeline, be aware that stage error handling takes precedence over
      pipeline error handling. That is, a pipeline might be configured to write error records to
      file, but if a stage is configured to discard error records those records are discarded. You
      might use this functionality to reduce the types of error records that are saved for review
      and reprocessing. </p>
    <p>Note that records missing required fields do not enter the stage. They are passed directly to
      the pipeline for error handling.</p>
  </conbody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="RequiredFields.dita#concept_dnj_bkm_vq"/>
  </related-links>
</concept>
