<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_msl_yd4_fs">
 <title>Preconditions</title>
  <conbody>
     <p><indexterm>preconditions<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>pipeline
                    design<indexterm>preconditions</indexterm></indexterm>Preconditions are
            conditions that a record must satisfy to enter the stage for processing. Stages process
            all preconditions before passing a record to the stage or to error handling. When a
            record does not meet all configured preconditions, it is processed based on the error
            handling configured for the stage. </p>
        <p>You can define preconditions for any processor, executor, and most destination stages.
            You can use most functions, pipeline constants, and runtime properties in preconditions. </p>

  <p>Configure preconditions as part of the overall pipeline logic or to minimize processing errors.
            For example, you might use the following expression to exclude records that originate
            from outside the United
            States:<codeblock> ${record:value('/COUNTRY') == 'US'}</codeblock></p>
        <p>Error records include information about failed preconditions in the errorMessage record
            header attribute. <ph product="SDC">You can also view error messages when viewing recent
                error records in Monitor mode, while the pipeline is running. </ph></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
