<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_th5_3zj_mw">
    <title>Generating Attributes for Record-Based Writes</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>Hadoop FS destination<indexterm>generating attributes for record-based
                    writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>record header
                    attributes<indexterm>generating for record-based
                writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>MapR FS destination<indexterm>generating
                    attributes for record-based
                    writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>destinations<indexterm>generating
                    attributes for record-based writes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Expression
                Evaluator processor<indexterm>generating attributes for record-based
                    writes</indexterm></indexterm>You can use the Hive Metadata processor, the
            Expression Evaluator, or a scripting processor to generate record header attributes for
            record-based writes. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/D-GenAttributes"
            /></p>
        <p>To use the Expression Evaluator or scripting processor, you must generate record header
            attributes as expected by the destination. Use the following guidelines to generate
            record header attributes:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Generating the target directory</dt>
                    <dd>When using the Expression Evaluator or scripting processor to generate the
                        target directory, note the following details:</dd>
                    <dd>
                        <ul id="ul_i1l_xyj_mw">
                            <li>The destination expects the directory in a header attribute named
                                "targetDirectory".</li>
                            <li>
                                <p>The destination uses the directory exactly as written in the
                                    targetDirectory header attribute. Unlike directory templates,
                                    the directory specified in the targetDirectory attribute should
                                    not include any components that require evaluation, such as
                                    runtime parameters, variables, or runtime properties. </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>When you define the expression that evaluates to a directory, you
                                    can use any valid component, including expressions that evaluate
                                    data in the record. </p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                        <p>For example, you want to write records to different directories based on
                            the <ph
                                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                            /> that runs the pipeline, and the region and store ID where the
                            transaction took place. You can set up a runtime resource named DIR that
                            defines the base for the directory and define DIR for each <ph
                                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
                            /> that runs the pipeline. Then, you can use the following expression in
                            the Expression Evaluator to define the targetDirectory attribute: </p>
                        <pre>${runtime:conf('DIR')/transactions/${record.value('/region')}/${record.value('/storeID')}</pre>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Generating the Avro schema</dt>
                    <dd>When using the Expression Evaluator or a scripting processor to generate the
                        Avro schema, note the following details: <ul id="ul_kx1_4ql_nw">
                            <li>The destination expects the Avro schema in a header attribute named
                                "avroSchema".</li>
                            <li>Use the standard Avro schema format, for example:
                                <codeblock>{"type":"record","name":"table_name","namespace":"database_name",
"fields":[{"name":"int_val","type":["null","int"],"default":null},
{"name":"str_val","type":["null","string"],"default":null}]}</codeblock></li>
                            <li>The database name and table name must be included in the Avro
                                schema.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                    <dd>
                        <note type="tip">You might use an Avro schema generator to help generate the
                            Avro schema. </note>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Generating the roll attribute</dt>
                    <dd>When using the Expression Evaluator or scripting processor to generate the
                        roll attribute, note the following details: <ul id="ul_a23_hnc_pw">
                            <li>Use any name for the attribute and specify the attribute name in the
                                destination. </li>
                            <li>Configure an expression that defines when to roll files.</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
        <p>To define these record header attributes in the Expression Evaluator, perform the
            following steps:<ol id="ol_jww_k31_cw">
                <li>On the <wintitle>Expressions</wintitle> tab of the Expression Evaluator, specify
                    the <uicontrol>Header Attribute</uicontrol> name. <p>To generate a target
                        directory, use <codeph>targetDirectory</codeph>. </p><p>To generate an Avro
                        schema, use <codeph>avroSchema</codeph>.</p><p>You can use any name for a
                        roll indicator header attribute.</p></li>
                <li>For the <uicontrol>Header Attribute Expression</uicontrol>, define the
                    expression that evaluates to the information you want the destination to use.
                </li>
            </ol></p>
        <p>For information about generating record header attributes with scripting processors, see
            the scripting processor documentation.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
