<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wn2_jcz_dz">
    <title>Record Header Attributes</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>record header attributes<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>Record
            header attributes are attributes in record headers that you can use in pipeline logic,
            as needed.</p>
        <p>Some stages create record header attributes for a particular purpose. For example, <xref
                href="CDC-Origins.dita#concept_iws_mhd_ty">CDC-enabled origins</xref> include the
            CRUD operation type in the sdc.operation.type record header attribute. This enables
            CRUD-enabled destinations to determine the operation type to use when processing
            records. Similarly, the Hive Metadata processor generates record header attributes that
            some destinations can use as part of the <xref
                href="../Hive_Drift_Solution/HiveDrift-Overview.dita#concept_phk_bdf_2w">Drift
                Synchronization Solution for Hive</xref>. </p>
        <p>Other stages include processing-related information in record header attributes for
            general use. For example, <xref
                href="../Event_Handling/StageEvents.dita#concept_zrl_mhn_lx"
                >event-generating stages</xref> include the event type in record header attributes
            in case you want to process the event based on that information. And several origins
            include information such as the originating file name, location, or partition for each
            record.</p>
        <p>You can use certain processors to create or update record header attributes. For example,
            you can use an Expression Evaluator to create attributes for <xref
                href="RecordBasedWrites-overview.dita#concept_lmn_gdc_1w">record-based
                writes</xref>. </p>
        <p>The inclusion of attributes in record headers does not require using them in the
            pipeline. You can, for example, use the CDC-enabled Salesforce origin in a non-CDC
            pipeline and ignore the CDC record header attributes that are automatically
            generated.</p>
        <p>When writing data to destination systems, record header attributes are preserved with the
            record only when using the Google Pub/Sub Publisher destination or when using another
            destination with the SDC Record data format. To preserve the information when using
            other data formats, use the Expression Evaluator to copy information from record header
            attributes to record fields.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
