<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
      
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_thl_nnr_hbb">
 <title>NetFlow Data Processing</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>NetFlow
                    messages<indexterm>processing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>messages<indexterm>processing
                    NetFlow messages</indexterm></indexterm>You can use <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/> to
            process NetFlow 5 and NetFlow 9 data. </p>
        <p>When processing NetFlow 5 data, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            processes flow records based on information in the packet header. <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            expects multiple packets with header and flow records sent on the same connection, with
            no bytes in between. As a result, when processing NetFlow 5 messages, you have no
            data-related properties to configure. </p>
        <p>When processing template-based NetFlow 9 messages, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            generates records based on cached templates, information in the packet header, and
            NetFlow 9 configuration properties in the stage. The NetFlow 9 properties display in
            different locations depending on the type of stage that you use:<ul id="ul_en2_hbm_3bb">
                <li>For origins that process messages directly from the network, such as the UDP
                    Source origin, you configure the NetFlow 9 properties on a NetFlow 9 tab. </li>
                <li>For most origins and processors that process other types of data, such as JSON
                    or protobuf, you configure NetFlow 9 properties on a Data Formats tab after you
                    select Datagram or NetFlow as the data format. </li>
                <li>For the TCP Server, you specify the NetFlow TCP mode, and then configure NetFlow
                    9 properties on a NetFlow 9 tab.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>When processing NetFlow 5 messages, the stage ignores any configured NetFlow 9
            properties. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
