<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_nfc_qkh_xw">
 <title>Whole File Data Format</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>whole file data format<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>You can use the
            whole file data format to move entire files from an origin system to a destination
            system. With the whole file data format, you can transfer any type of file. You cannot
            perform additional processing on whole file data in the pipeline. </p>
        <p>When moving whole files, <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            streams file data from the origin system and writes the data to the destination system.
                <ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"
            /> writes the files based on the directory and file name defined in the destination. </p>
        <p>You can limit the resources used to transfer data by specifying a transfer rate. By
            default, whole file transfers use available resources as needed.</p>
        <p>When the origin system provides checksum metadata, you can configure the origin to verify
            the checksum. Destinations that generate events can include checksum information in
            event records.</p>
        <p>Most destinations allow you to define access permissions for written files. By default,
            written files use the default permissions of the destination system. </p>
        <p>
            <note>During data preview, a whole file pipeline displays a single record instead of the
                number of records configured for the preview batch size.</note>
        </p>
        <p>You can use the following origins to read whole files:<ul id="ul_dmp_y5h_xw">
                <li>Amazon S3</li>
                <li>Google Cloud Storage</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>You can use the following destinations to write whole files:<ul id="ul_wrs_cvh_xw">
                <li>Amazon S3</li>
                <li>Azure Data Lake Store</li>
                <li>Google Cloud Storage</li>
                <li>Hadoop FS</li>
                <li>Local FS</li>
                <li>MapR FS</li>
            </ul></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
