<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_prt_sst_gy">
 <title>Sample XPath Expressions</title>
 <conbody>
  <p><indexterm>XML data<indexterm>sample XPath expressions</indexterm></indexterm>Here are some
            examples of valid and invalid XPath expressions:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Valid expressions</dt>
                <dd>The following expression selects every element beneath the first top-level
                    element.<codeblock>/*[1]/*</codeblock>The following expression selects every
                    value element under an allvalues element with a source attribute set to "XYZ".
                    The allvalues element below a top-level element named root. Each element is in
                    the abc
                    namespace:<codeblock>/abc:root/abc:allvalues[@source='XYZ']/xyz:value</codeblock></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Invalid expressions</dt>
                <dd>The following expressions are not valid:<ul id="ul_zcn_2k4_2y">
                        <li><codeph>/root//value</codeph> - Invalid because the descendent-or-self
                            axis (“//”) is not supported. </li>
                        <li><codeph>/root/collections[last()]/value</codeph> - Invalid because
                            functions, e.g. last, are not supported.</li>
                        <li><codeph>/root/collections[@source='XYZ'][@sequence='2']</codeph> -
                            Invalid because multiple predicates for an element are not
                            supported.</li>
                        <li><codeph>/root/collections[@source="ABC"]</codeph> - Invalid because
                            attribute the attribute value should be in single quotation marks. </li>
                        <li><codeph>/root/collections[@source]</codeph> - Invalid because the
                            expression uses an attribute without defining the attribute value.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
