<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

    Copyright 2017 StreamSets Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lty_42b_dy">
    <title>Reading and Processing XML Data</title>
    <conbody>
        <p><indexterm>XML data<indexterm>processing in origins and the XML Parser
                    processor</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>origins<indexterm>reading and
                    processing XML data</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>XML Parser
                    processor<indexterm>processing XML data</indexterm></indexterm>You can parse XML
            documents from an origin system with an origin enabled for the XML data format. You can
            also parse XML documents in a field in a <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            record with the XML Parser processor. </p>
        <p>You can use the XML data format and the XML Parser to process well-formed XML documents.
                <ph
                conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/ph-p-InvalidXML-CustomDelimXref"
            /></p>
        <p><ph conref="../Reusable_Content/ReusablePhrases.dita#concept_vhs_5tz_xp/pName-long"/>
            uses a user-defined delimiter element to determine how it generates records. When
            processing XML data, you can generate a single record or multiple records from an XML
            document, as follows:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Generate a single record</dt>
                    <dd>To generate a single record from an XML document, do not specify a delimiter
                        element.</dd>
                    <dd>When you generate a single record from an XML document, the entire document
                        is written to the record as a map.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Generate multiple records using an XML element</dt>
                    <dd>You can generate multiple records from an XML document by specifying an XML
                        element as the delimiter element. </dd>
                    <dd>You can use an XML element when the element resides directly under the root
                        element. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Generate multiple records using a simplified XPath expression</dt>
                    <dd>You can generate multiple records from an XML document by specifying a
                        simplified XPath expression as the delimiter element.</dd>
                    <dd>Use a simplified XPath expression to access data below the first level of
                        elements in the XML document, to access namespaced elements, elements deeper
                        in complex XML documents.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
